

CITY OF TALLADEGA - ZONING ORDINANCE - ORDINANCE NO. 1882


THIS ORDINANCE SUPERSEDES AND REPLACES ORDINANCE 1120


ARTICLE 1 - Preamble and Enactment

In pursuance of authority conferred by Title 11, Chapter 52, Article 4,
Sections 70 to 83 inclusive, Code of Alabama 1975, as amended, and for
the purposes of promoting the health, safety, morals, public peace,
order, or general welfare of the City of Talladega, Alabama; lessening
congestion in the streets, securing safety from fire panic, and other
dangers; providing adequate light and air, preventing the overcrowding
of land; avoiding undue concentration of population; facilitating the
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
and other public requirements; conserving the value of buildings; and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land and buildings throughout
the City; all in accordance with a comprehensive plan, the City Council
of the City of Talladega, Alabama, does hereby ordain and enact into law
the following:


ARTICLE 2 - Short Title

This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as “The Talladega,
Alabama Zoning Ordinance 1882.”


ARTICLE 3 - Definitions

SECTION 300 INTRODUCTION

Except as specifically defined herein all words used in this Ordinance
have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of this
Ordinance, certain words or terms are hereby defined.

Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in
the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include
the singular.

The word “shall” means mandatory.

The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.

The word “building” includes the word “structure.”

The word “used” or “occupied”, as applied to any land or building, shall
be construed to include the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be
used or occupied.”

SECTION 301 GLOSSARY

ACCESSORY USE- A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of a lot and located on the same lot as such principal
use.

AIRFIELD- Any land used primarily for fixed or rotary wing aircraft
operations, including any accessory structures associated with aviation
operations. (Ord 1120) (Reworded from the original language of the
permitted use)

AGRICULTURE- The use of land for, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry; and the usual and
necessary accessory facilities for packing, treating and storage of the
produce of such activities. The accessory uses shall be secondary to
that of normal agricultural activities, and provided further that none
of the above uses or accessory uses shall include the commercial feeding
of offal or garbage to swine.

AGRICULTURE, COMMERCIAL- the principal use of land for AGRICULTURE with
the intent of sale or transfer of the product produced thereon as a
primary or secondary source of income.

AGRICULTURE, NON-COMMERCIAL- An accessory use to a one-family dwelling
for the principal benefit of the occupants thereof, provided that all
related accessory buildings are located in the rear yard and any
animal(s) is(are) contained in a fenced enclosure or fully enclosed
structure or combination thereof suitable to prevent the animal(s) from
roaming at large. No animal enclosure may be closer than ten (10) feet
from any property line. Enclosures shall be maintained in a sanitary
fashion and free of vermin, foul odors or other conditions which may
present a health hazard or nuisance.

ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES- defined in the Code of Alabama 1975, Section 28-3-1

ALLEY- A public service way which affords only a secondary means of
access to the rear or side of abutting property and not intended for
general traffic circulation.

ALTERATION/ALTERED- Any addition to the height, width, or depth of a
building or structure; or any change in the location of any of the
exterior walls. A building or structure shall be classified as altered
when it is repaired, renovated, remodeled or rebuilt at a cost in excess
of fifty (50) percent of its fair value prior to the commencement of
such repairs, renovation, remodeling, or rebuilding.

ALTERATION, INCIDENTAL- Modifications to a building or structure that
are of a cosmetic nature, replacement of utilities, and rearrangement of
internal partitions. The replacement or alteration of exterior walls is
not an incidental alteration.

ANTENNA- system of electrical conductors that transmit or receive
electromagnetic waves or radio frequency signals. Such waves shall
include, but not be limited to radio, television, cellular, paging,
personal Telecommunications services (PCS), and microwave
Telecommunications. (Ord. 1500 - 8 Mar 2001)

AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION, MAJOR REPAIR- Buildings and premises where
gasoline, oils, greases, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may
be supplied and dispensed at retail (or in connection with private
operation), where engine blocks, transmissions, front and rear axle
assemblies, major body work, dismantling, spray painting and similar
items of work associated with automobiles, boats or other motorized
vehicles. Minor repair services may or may not be offered.

AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION, MINOR REPAIR- Buildings and premises where
gasoline, oils, greases, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may
be supplied and dispensed at retail (or in connection with private
operation), where no part of the premises is used for paint spraying,
body or fender repair, or the storage of dismantled or wrecked vehicle
parts, and also where minor services are rendered such as, sale and
servicing of spark plugs, batteries, and distributors; tire repair and
servicing (but no recapping), replacement of minor items of equipment
such as mufflers, and tail pipes, water hoses, fan belts, brake fluid,
etc., radiator cleaning and flushing, minor servicing and replacing of
carburetors, car washing, waxing, and detailing.

BANK- Any corporation or trust company organized under the laws of the
State of Alabama and under the jurisdiction of the superintendent of
banks of the State of Alabama or organized under the laws of the United
States and under the supervision of the controller of the Currency for
controller and Currency of the United States or the Federal Reserve
System and the Superintendent of Banks of the State of Alabama. (Defined
in Ord 1787 – 15 Dec 2014)

BAR- Any establishment, public or private, licensed for the sale of any
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, without an area set
aside for the handling and preparation of food and not permitted by the
Talladega County Health Department to store, prepare or serve food, with
or without consideration of payment, unless it is prepared and/or
packaged off premises by an entity appropriately permitted to distribute
food for human consumption; excluding however, any establishment, public
or private, that habitually offers the performance of music or other
entertainment, live, via streaming media or recorded, with or without
consideration of payment. (Defined in Ord 1787 – 15 Dec 2014)

BED AND BREAKFAST INN- An existing residence where the owner lives on
the premises and provides short-time lodging for compensation. The
residence contains no more than six (6) guest rooms with breakfast being
provided for the guests.

BOARDING HOUSE- An establishment other than a hotel, motel, Bed and
Breakfast Inn or restaurant where lodging is provided for compensation
to at least four (4) persons. Meals, where provided, shall be available
to members and employees only. This definition shall include fraternity
houses.

BUFFER- A densely planted strip of evergreen shrubs or trees, or solid
fencing, or a drainage way, or a difference in elevation, or a similar
condition, or any combination thereof, of sufficient height and density
to block the view across the buffer.

BUILDING- Any structure having a roof and intended for the shelter,
housing, or protection of persons, animals or property. (Ord 1742)

BUILDING, ACCESSORY- A subordinate structure, detached from but on the
same development site as the principal structure, the use of which is
incidental and secondary to that of the principal structure.

BUILDING, PRINCIPAL USE- A building in which is conducted, or in which
is intended to be conducted, the main or principal use of the lot on
which it is located. There shall be internal access to all interior
portions of a single-family detached dwelling unit. An outlying
structure shall be considered an accessory building unless connected to
the principal building by fully enclosed living space.

BUILDING HEIGHT- The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade at the front of the building to the
highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the mean height level
between eaves and ridges for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs, and to the
deck line of a mansard roof.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE- A line establishing the minimum allowable
distance between the nearest portion of any building or structure,
excluding steps, gutters, and similar fixtures on a building, and the
right of way line of the abutting street.

CAMPGROUND (DEVELOPED OR UNDEVELOPED)- one (1) or more defined sites
intended for the purpose of recreational CAMPING (PRIMITIVE OR MODERN)
with (developed) or without (undeveloped) access to electrical power
and/or potable water.

CAMPING, PRIMITIVE- the use of a TENT or similar portable, semi-rigid
structure intended for temporary habitation without direct access to
electrical, water, sewer or other public utility.

CAMPING, MODERN- the use of a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE for the purpose of
temporary habitation. The vehicle may be fully self-contained with
power, water and sanitary facilities, utilize external connections for
power, water and sanitary facilities, a combination of both or neither.

CEMETERY - a public or private parcel, plot or other division of land
designated and used for the below or above ground inhumation and
interment of dead bodies or cremated remains.

CHURCH (and similar places of worship)- A BUILDING used for regular
religious worship, by the congregation or parts thereof, of an organized
religion. May include related facilities such as classrooms, family
activity centers, fitness centers, day-care centers and retail and/or
consignment/thrift shops.

CITY COUNCIL- The City Council of the City of Talladega, Alabama.

CLINIC- An establishment, public or private, where there are no
overnight facilities and where people are given examination, diagnosis
and treatment as out-patients by physicians, dentists, optometrists or
other members of the medical profession.

CLUB, HUNTING/FISHING/GUN- See Club, Public or Private

CLUB, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE- Type I - A corporation or association organized
or formed in good faith by authority of law which shall have at least
one hundred fifty (150) paid up members. The corporation or association
must be the owner, lessee or occupant of an establishment operated
solely for the objects of national, social, patriotic, political or
athletic nature or similar purposes, but not for pecuniary gain, and the
property upon which the establishment is located, as well as the
advantages of which, belong to all the members; and which maintains an
establishment provided with special space and accommodations where, in
consideration of payment, food with or without lodging is regularly
served. The corporation or organization shall hold regular meetings,
continue its business through officers regularly elected, admit members
by written application, investigation and ballot, and charge and collect
dues from elected members. (Defined in Ord 1787 – 15 Dec 2014)

Type II - A corporation or association organized or formed in good faith
by authority of law which must have at least one hundred (100) paid up
members. The corporation or organization must be the owner, lessee or
occupant of an establishment operated solely for the objects of
national, social, patriotic, political or athletic nature or similar
purposes. The corporation or association shall hold regular meetings,
continue its business through officers regularly elected, admit members
by written application, investigation and ballot, and charge and collect
dues from elected members. (Defined in Ord 1787 – 15 Dec 2014)
(Reference: Code of Alabama 1975, Section 28-3-1(8)

CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT- Development in which individual lots may be smaller
than the average lot authorized by the zoning ordinance, yet the overall
gross density remains the same. Buildable lots are located on a portion
of rather than the entire site so that the residual area may be
preserved for recreation or open space.

CONDOMINIUM- Property ownership arrangement in which a buyer receives a
percentage interest in a development on an undivided parcel of land,
resulting in the right to exclusive use of a specific dwelling unit or
portion of the undivided parcel, such as a mobile home or recreational
vehicle site. Common areas of the site, which are not assigned to a
specific owner, such as pools, clubhouses, parking areas and other
amenities, are the collective responsibility of all owners or members of
the condominium development. A building, or groups of buildings, in
which units are owned individually, and all the owners on a
proportional, undivided basis own the structure, commons areas and
facilities.

CONTRACTOR YARD- A lot or portion thereof intended for the storage of
vehicles, machinery and or/equipment used in and/or associated with the
building trade including new building materials ready for immediate
transport and use at a construction site. (That is, palletized or on
blocks where a forklift or similar materials handling device may move it
from the ground to a vehicle)

CONVENIENCE ORIENTED BUSINESS- A business that sells retail items
generally necessary or desirable for everyday living, usually purchased
at a convenient nearby location. Often purchased without
comparison-shopping. May include vehicle fuel and minor maintenance
fluids and/or repair parts intended to be installed by operator.

CREDIT UNION- Any organization created under the provisions of Ala. Code
1975, Title V, Chapter XVII, formed as a cooperative society,
incorporated for the two-fold purpose of promoting thrift among its
members and creating a source of credit for them at legitimate rates of
interest, particularly among groups of industrial workers and farmers,
fraternal and religious organization, and in those communities where the
citizens of the State are distantly removed from convenience centers of
business or easy access to financial agencies now provided for by laws
of Alabama. (Defined in Ord 1787 – 15 Dec 2014)

DAY CARE SERVICES- shall mean and include any home, center, agency, or
place, however styled, where children, elderly, and other persons not
related to the operator are received for custodial care, apart from
their parents or legal guardians, whether for compensation, reward, or
otherwise during part of all of the day or any number of successive
days. Such facility shall be licensed by the State of Alabama.

DEFERRED PRESENTMENT SERVICE- (aka. Pay Day Loan) Any business engaged
in deferred presentment services as that term is defined under Ala. Code
1975, Section 5-18A-2(3) and subject to the provisions of Ala. Code
1975, Title V, Chapter 18A. Does not include Pawn Shops. (Defined in Ord
1787 – 15 Dec 2014)

DILAPIDATED STRUCTURE- A substandard structure in need of major repairs
to the extent that the structure is UNSAFE for habitation or is beyond
economically feasible rehabilitation. (Ref. Ord. 1787 3 Jun 2013)

DWELLING- A permanent building or portion thereof designed, arranged, or
used principally for residential occupancy that conforms to the
international building and fire codes at the time of construction, but
does not include manufactured homes, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, TENTS or
similar readily portable or transportable objects.

DWELLING UNIT- A room or group of rooms, providing or intended to
provide living quarters for not more than one (1) family except all
rooms within the dwelling unit shall have internal access, and the unit
shall have no more than one electrical meter. See also: BUILDING,
PRIMARY USE.

EXTERIOR STORAGE- Outdoor storage of fuel, raw materials, vehicles,
products and equipment. In the case of lumberyards, exterior storage
includes any impervious materials stored outdoors. In the case of truck
terminals, exterior storage includes all trucks, truck beds, and truck
trailers stored outdoors.

FAMILY- Two (2) or more persons residing in a single dwelling unit where
all members are related by blood, marriage, adoption or guardianship up
to the second degree of consanguinity, plus one unrelated person in the
Single-Family Residential Zoning District. For the purpose of this
definition “consanguinity” means husbands and wives, brothers and
sisters, parents and children, grandparents and grandchildren, uncles
and aunts, nephews and nieces, and first cousins. In all other zoning
districts where residential units are permitted the term “family” may
include up to five (5) unrelated persons occupying a single dwelling
unit.

FIREARM- A weapon from which a shot is discharged by gunpowder. (Code of
AL, Title 13A-8-1(5) This definition includes any type of rifle or
pistol which projects a shot by use of compressed gas or any device that
propels a shot by release of energy stored in a spring, elastic band or
rotational motion (sling/slingshot) and any type bow or crossbow
(Talladega City Ordinance 773, 20 Feb 1962) (Talladega City Ordinance
1437, 6 Jan 1998).

FLOOD HAZARD AREA- Any land area that is susceptible to inundation by
water from any source.

FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP – See Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)

FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) – Maps issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) describing the location and type of Flood
Hazard Area within the municipal limits of the City of Talladega.

FLOODWAY- The portion of the flood plain required in order to discharge
the 100-year flood without raising the water surface elevation more than
one foot above the base flood elevation at any point.

FOWL- _(FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE R-3 ZONING DISTRICT) DOMESTICATED BIRDS
HOUSED OUTDOORS AND LIMITED TO THE FAMILIES GALLUS (CHICKENS) AND
PHASIANIDAE (PHEASANT AND PEAHENS) BUT NOT INCLUDING BIRDS COMMONLY KEPT
INDOORS AS PETS SUCH AS, BUT NOT LIMITED TO PARROTS AND COCKATIELS
(ORDER PSITTACIFORMES). _

_DUCKS, GEESE OR SWANS (FAMILY_ ANATIDAE) AND Guineafowl (FAMILY
NUMIDIDAE) ARE NOT PERMITTED IN ZONE R-3.

HISTORIC DISTRICT, LOCAL- The area of the City of Talladega under the
jurisdiction of the Talladega Historic Preservation Commission as
authorized by City Ordinance 1249.

HISTORIC DISTRICT, NATIONAL- The area(s) within the City of Talladega
recognized by the United States Department of the Interior’s National
Register of Historic Places and shown on the City’s Zoning Map.

HOME OCCUPATION- A routine and customary non-residential use conducted
within or administered from a portion of a dwelling or its permitted
accessory building in a residential district that:

A.  Is conducted by a permanent resident of the dwelling or a maximum of
    one non-resident working on the premises at any one point in time.

B.  Does NOT include the following: retail or wholesale sales (other
    than over the phone/internet or through the mail), industrial use
    (other than custom crafts and sewing), veterinarian or medical
    office, non-household stable, kennel, funeral home, restaurant,
    mechanical auto repair or body work, spray painting of vehicles,
    trucking company terminal, welding, pesticide company, HOTEL or
    MOTEL, manufacturing (other than custom crafts such as ceramics) or
    boarding house.

C.  Uses permitted as home occupation include, but are not limited to:
    art studio, office-type work (such as writing, editing, drafting,
    website design), custom sewing, tax preparation, catering for
    off-site consumption, musical instruction, or tutoring of one
    student at a time. (Ord 1704 – 15 Aug 2011)

HOTEL- A building, or portion of a building, containing sleeping units,
which are occupied on a daily or short-term basis. A hotel may include a
restaurant and banquet or ballrooms, and one (1) self-contained dwelling
unit for the use of a resident manager

JUNK YARD- Any land or structure used for a salvaging operation,
including but not limited to the storage and sale of waste paper, rags,
scrap metal, and discarded materials and the collection, dismantlement,
storage and/or sale and salvage of two (2) or more unlicensed,
inoperative VEHICLES.

KENNEL- Any person engaged in the business or service for a fee of
breeding, buying, selling, training or boarding animals. (Ord 1799 – 10
Sep 2015)

LAND, PUBLIC- a lot or portion thereof set aside for use by the general
public by deed or other assign.

LEGAL NONCONFORMITY/NONCONFORMING USE- any land use or physical design
of development, structure, sign, or lot of record legally established
prior to the effective date of this Ordinance or subsequent amendment to
it, which would not be permitted by or is not in full compliance with
the regulations of this Ordinance.

LIQUOR- as defined in the Code of Alabama 1975, Section 28-3-1(18)

LODGE- See Clubs, Public or Private

LOT- A parcel of land occupied by, or designated to be developed for one
(1) or more buildings or principal uses, and the accessory buildings or
uses customarily incidental to such uses including such open spaces and
yards as are designed and arranged or required by this Ordinance for
such building, use or development. Includes the terms “plot” and
“parcel.” The establishment of lease or rental lines shall not define
separate lots for purposes of this Ordinance.

LOT WIDTH- The shortest distance between the side lines of a lot,
measured along the building setback line. The establishment of lease or
rental lines shall not define separate lots for purposes of this
Ordinance.

LOUNGE- See Bar

MAIN STREET FRONTAGE- Frontage of a lot as identified in the official
street address of the parcel.

MALT OR BREWED BEVERAGES- As defined in the Code of Alabama 1975,
Section 28-3-1(3)

MANUFACTURING, INCIDENTAL- manufacturing that is incidental to the
retail business or service, occupies less than 30 percent of the floor
area and employs no more than four operators. All sales, storage,
service or incidental manufacturing activities shall be carried on
within a building. (Ord 1120 – 16 July 80)

MANUFACTURED HOME – A structure transportable in one or more sections,
which in the traveling mode is eight (8) body feet or more in width or
forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site is three
hundred twenty (320) or more square feet and which is built on a
permanent chassis, and designed to be used as a single family
residential dwelling, with or without permanent foundation, when
connected to the required utilities, and includes plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems. The home is built to the standards
and specifications as set out in the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act. (Ord. 1705 - 6 Sep 11)

MANUFACTURED HOME PARK- ANY AREA DESIGNATED ON THE ZONING MAP AS M-H.

MINING- SEE QUARRYING

MOBILE HOME OR HOUSE TRAILER – A structure built prior to June 15, 1976,
designed and fabricated to be transported on its own wheels and axles
arriving at the site where it is to be located and occupied as a
residential dwelling, completed and ready for occupancy including
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems. Travel
trailers, campers, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, and motor homes are not
considered to be Manufactured Homes, Mobile Homes, or House Trailers.
(Ord. 1705 - 6 Sept 2011)

MODULAR HOME – A factory fabricated transportable structure consisting
of sections designed to be incorporated at a building site on a
permanent foundation and used for residential purposes. A modular home
must have a seal of compliance according to the regulations of the
Alabama Manufactured Housing Commission. (Ord. 1705 - 6 Sept 11)

MOTEL- See Hotel

NET AREA- The total area of a site minus the street area.

NIGHT CLUB- Any establishment, public or private, licensed for the sale
of any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, without an
area set aside for the handling and preparation of food and not
permitted by the County Health Department to store, prepare or serve
food, with or without consideration of payment, unless it is prepared
and/or packaged off premises by an entity appropriately permitted to
distribute food for human consumption and that habitually offers the
performance of music or other entertainment, live, via streaming media
or recorded, with or without consideration of payment."

(Defined in Ord 1787 – 15 Dec 2014)

NOISE- Generally any sound plainly audible on a public way from a
distance of 50 feet or off the property by another 15 feet from the
property line. Ordinance 1780, effective date 3 Nov 2014

NONCONFORMING USE- A structure or lot lawfully occupied by a use that is
not permitted in the zoning district in which it is situated.

NUISANCE- Any use or activity which is obnoxious, annoying, or offensive
(such as a use or activity which creates NOISE, odors, vibration, or
traffic congestion and negatively impacts the community in terms of
health, safety, morals, conveniences, and general welfare).

OPEN SPACE- Space which is not occupied by a building or structure.

PACKAGE STORE- Any place or premise for the principal purpose of retail
sales of ALCOHOLIC beverages by the bottle, can, pack, or case, for
off-premise consumption. Should gross receipts from the sale of
distilled alcoholic beverages exceed gross receipts from other sales and
activities on the premises during any one (1) month, it shall be prima
facie evidence that the principal purpose of the establishment is the
sale of alcoholic beverages.

PARKING GARAGE OR LOT- An open area or a structure used exclusively for
the temporary off-street storage of motor vehicles. Such area or
structure may be an independent business or may be used in conjunction
with any other business or commercial use. A fee may be charged.

PARTS YARD- A lot, parcel or portion thereof used for the purpose of
storage of VEHICLE components for re-use or sale and organized by
component type in such a way as each component is identifiable. (No
piles)

PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY- See Wireless Telecommunications Facilities

PLANNING COMMISSION- The City Planning Commission of the City of
Talladega, Alabama.

QUARRYING- Development of natural resources including the removal of
minerals and natural materials, together with necessary buildings,
machinery, and appurtenances thereto, provided:

1.  Any extension of quarrying or other extractive operations beyond the
    limits actually being quarried at the effective date of this
    Ordinance shall be considered as a new operation.

2.  Quarries and other extractive areas being excavated shall be
    entirely enclosed within a fence located at least ten feet back from
    the edge of any excavation and of such construction and height as to
    be demonstrably able to exclude children and livestock from such
    areas.

3.  Buildings, machinery and other appurtenances shall not be located
    closer than 200 feet to any property line.

4.  At the time of obtaining permits, the operators or owners of any
    areas to be excavated shall file plans for the re-use of the
    property at the cessation of the operation. (Ord 1120 16 July 1980)

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE- A VEHICLE either self-propelled or a unit that is
mounted on or drawn by another vehicle primarily designed for temporary
habitation. Recreational vehicles include travel trailers, camping
trailers, truck campers, and motor homes. A recreational vehicle shall
not be permanently affixed to the ground or any structure.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK- A lot on which sites are established for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary
living quarters for purposes of recreation or vacation. No recreational
vehicle park shall be platted or otherwise divided by fee simple
ownership; however, the sale of memberships and assignment of campsites
on a condominium basis is permitted. All facilities and amenities,
including roads, clubhouse or recreation facilities, and buffer yards
are privately owned or owned in common by members of a condominium
association.

RECREATIONAL USE AREA- Athletic fields or stadiums, race tracks, and
speedways and other areas for public uses, including golf driving
ranges, swimming pools, fishing lakes and similar uses (Ord 1120)

REGISTERED HISTORIC DISTRICT- Area identified in the National Register
of Historic Places.

REGULAR ZONING DISTRICT- A zoning district which is delineated on the
base zoning map.

RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD- An establishment whose principal business is the
sale of food and/or beverages in a ready-to-consume state: (1) for
consumption within the restaurant building, or within a motor vehicle
parked on the premises or off the premises as a carry-out order; or (2)
to be served through a drive-up window, and whose principal method of
operation includes the following characteristics: food and/or beverages
are usually served in edible containers or in paper, plastic, or other
disposable containers.

RESTAURANT, STANDARD- A business which prepares, sells, and serves food
and beverages to customers for consumption within the restaurant
building or on the building site at outside tables. Businesses of this
type include, but are not limited to, café, cafeteria, dining room,
tearoom, coffee shop, hot dog stand, and sandwich shop. Carryout service
may be provided, but not curb service or drive-thru window service. A
restaurant may involve service of liquors, table wine and beer with
State and local licenses, but must derive at least 51% of its gross
revenue from the sale of food and non-alcoholic beverages and devote 51%
or more of the floor area to the restaurant use.

SAVINGS AND LOAN- Any savings and loan association subject to the
provisions of Ala. Code 1975, as amended, Title V, Chapter XVI or a
Federal Savings and Loan Association incorporated pursuant to an Act of
Congress known as the Homeowners’ Loan Act of 1933. (Defined in Ord 1787
– 15 Dec 2014)

SCRAP YARD- see Junkyard

SIGN- Any device, structure, fixture, or placard using graphics,
symbols, and/or written copy designed specifically for the purpose of
advertising or identifying any establishment, products, goods, or
services. City Ordinance 1742 (8 Mar 2013)

SPECIAL ZONING DISTRICT- A zoning district outlined on the overlay of
the zoning map.

STREET- A public way for vehicular traffic which is opened to the
general public and which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.

SUBDIVISION- As defined in Code of Alabama 1975, § 11-24-1(a)(4), the
development and division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2)
or more lots, plats, sites, or otherwise for the purpose of establishing
or creating a subdivision through the sale, lease, or building
development of the lot or lots.

Exclusions: A subdivision shall not include any of the following:

a. The construction or development of roads or buildings on private
property to be used for agricultural purposes. See, Code of Alabama
1975, § 11-24-1(a)(4);

b. The public acquisition by purchase or donation of strips of land for
the widening or opening of streets:

c. Property divided between immediate family members as provided in Code
of Alabama 1975, § 11-24-2(d);

c.  

d.  The division of land into parcels greater than five (5) acres
    wherein all of the following criteria are met and shown on a plat to
    be filed with the Judge of Probate with a certificate on the plat
    stating that all criteria are met:

(i) frontage on existing roads of each parcel is at least sixty (60)
    feet,

(ii) the extension of public utilities is not required, and

(iii) in the opinion of the developer’s licensed engineer, there will be
    no additional storm water runoff created.

e. Parcels which qualify for exemptions from subdivision criteria and
rules and regulations imposed by the State Board of Health pursuant to
Code of Alabama 1975, § 22-26-7 provided they also meet all of the
criteria set out in (d)(i), (ii), and (iii) above.

TAVERN- see Bar

TELECOMMUNICATIONS- the transmission and reception of audio, video,
data, and other information by wire, radio frequency, light, and other
electronic or electromagnetic systems. (Ord 1500 - 8 Mar 2001)

TELECOMMUNICATIONS SITE- See Wireless Telecommunications Facilities

TELECOMMUNICATIONS STRUCTURE- a structure used in the provision of
services described in the definition of ‘Wireless Telecommunications
Facilities’. (Ord 1500 – 8 Mar 2001)

TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER- See Wireless Telecommunications Facilities

TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER, FALL ZONE- The area located around the base of
the tower, with a radius equal to one-half the height of the tower.

TEMPORARY DWELLING- Any structure intended for short-term human
habitation not fixed to the ground by a foundation or other permanent
anchoring system and not meeting the definition of a Building,
Manufactured or Modular Home.

TENT (or similar structure)- a portable shelter intended for habitation
made of cloth, supported by one or more poles and stretched tight by
cords or loops attached to pegs driven into the ground. Includes but is
not limited to picnic covers, portable shades, teepees, yurts and
Hoberman style shelters but does not include those intended for
children’s play.

THOROUGHFARE- A Street designated as a “Thoroughfare” by the use of
symbols on the Zoning Map.

TOWN HOUSE- Residential dwelling unit designed and constructed to meet
Standard Building Code requirements for single family attached
structures, sharing a common side wall with at least one (1) other unit,
and located in a structure containing three (3) units or more.

UNSAFE (BUILDING)- (untenable or dangerous condition) all buildings or
structures which have any or all of the following defects shall be
deemed unsafe, untenable or dangerous condition:

1.  Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or
    roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have
    insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;

2.  Those which have been damaged by fire, wind and/or other causes so
    as to have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general
    health or welfare of the occupants or the people of the City of
    Talladega, Alabama;

3.  Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
    unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities
    essential to decent living that they are unfit for human habitation,
    or likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the
    health, morals, safety or general welfare of those living therein;

4.  Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are
    inadequate to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare
    of human beings who live therein or may live therein;

5.  Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or
    panic or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire
    escapes or other means of evacuation;

6.  Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
    fail and injure members of the public or property;

7.  Those which, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary or
    dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the
    people of this City;

8.  Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of the
    building code or any other relevant code of this City, or any
    provisions of the fire prevention code, or other ordinances of this
    City. (Ord 1749 – 3 June 2013)

UTILITY, PUBLIC- The services provided by the City or a contractor
thereof including but is not limited to water, sanitary sewer, storm
drains, electrical, telephone and television cable, associated
supporting structures, easements and rights-of-way as well as the
materials used for the distribution thereof. Public utilities may be
located underground, at grade level or overhead.

VEHICLE- any machine propelled by power other than human power designed
to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides,
and transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include,
without limitation, every automobile, motorcycle, mobile trailer,
semi-trailer, truck, truck tractor, trailer, tractor, buggy or wagon and
any other device that is self-propelled or drawn, in, upon, or by which
any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public
highway except such as is moved by animal power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 1735 – 20 Aug 2012)

WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER- Any private company,
corporation or similar such entity providing two-way interactive
communications services to the general public by way of Cellular
Communications facilities.

WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES- a structure, facility or
location designed, or intended to be used as, or used to support,
antennas. It includes without limit, free standing towers, guyed towers,
monopoles, and similar structures that employ camouflage technology,
including, but not limited to structures such as a multi-story building,
church steeple, silo, water tower, sign or other similar structures
intended to mitigate the visual impact of an antenna or the functional
equivalent of such. It is a structure intended for transmitting and/or
receiving radio, television, cellular, paging, 911, personal
telecommunications services, commercial satellite services, or microwave
telecommunications, but excluding those used exclusively for the City’s
fire, police and other dispatch telecommunications, or exclusively for
private radio and television reception and private citizen’s bands,
amateur radio and other similar telecommunications. (Ord 1500 – 8 March
2001)

YARD- A space on the same lot with a principal building, open,
unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to
sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly
permitted.

YARD, FRONT- A yard extending the full width of the lot, and situated
between the right-of-way line of the abutting street and the nearest
point of the principal building.

YARD, REAR- A yard extending the full width of the lot from the rear of
the lot to the nearest point of the principal building.

YARD, SIDE- A yard situated between the nearest point of the principal
building and the side line of the lot, generally extending from the rear
line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.

ZONING DISTRICT- A section of the City of Talladega, for which the
zoning regulations are uniform, as delineated on the Zoning Map.

ZONE MAP- The “Talladega, Alabama Zoning Map” which includes a base map
of the regular zoning districts and an overlay of the special zoning
districts.

SECTION 302. USE CATEGORIES DEFINED

302.01 AGRICULTURE- Agricultural uses include farms (and farm
residences); fish or poultry hatcheries; fur-bearing animal ranches;
orchards; raising of livestock, horses, or poultry; truck farming; and
all other agricultural uses. It does not include uses that may be
accessory to agriculture, such as retail stores, nor does it include
industries or businesses that support or are supported by agriculture.

302.02 RESIDENTIAL- Residential uses consist of a single-family detached
dwelling on a lot, developments consisting of two (2) or more lots
intended for detached single-family dwellings (SUBDIVISION),
developments consisting of one (1) or more multi-family dwellings
(apartment/condominium) or TOWNHOUSES and MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS. Def.
Pg.# 16, 18, 12

302.03 COMMERCIAL- Commercial uses consist of banks, general services,
any retail, any professional service and mixed-use residential over a
commercial, retail or professional service space.

The use of temporary and/or portable structures for the primary use
building shall be prohibited. Temporary construction trailers are
exempted for permitted construction sites and shall be removed not later
than the date of issue of the Certificate of Occupancy.

302.04 OFFICE AND SERVICES- Office uses consist of medical clinics,
dental clinics, home care services, businesses that support the health
industry, financial services to include banks without drive-throughs,
professional services and retail or wholesale services. Offices must
have a connection to water, power and sanitary sewer. An approved septic
system may be substituted for a municipal sewer connection in areas
where sanitary sewer service is not available.

The use of temporary and/or portable structures for the primary use
building shall be prohibited. Temporary construction trailers are
exempted for permitted construction sites and shall be removed prior to
issue of the Certificate of Occupancy.

302.05 INDUSTRIAL- Industrial and manufacturing uses are facilities
which may create any or all of the following: high truck traffic
intensity, loud noises, noxious smells, vibrations, require a large area
of exterior storage space and have the potential for the creation of
negative environmental impacts. They consist of, but are not limited to
petroleum processing or distribution plants, grain elevators, lumber
mills, machine and fabrication facilities and lumber yards. Operations
that occupy more than 30,000 sq. ft. floor area in a single structure is
considered industrial.

302.06 EXTRACTION/WRECKING/JUNK/PARTS YARDS includes any entity engaged
in the business of automotive salvage, disassembly of machinery and
extraction of materials from same, and processing of scrap materials.
This type facility has a high potential to create negative environmental
impacts due to discharge of petroleum products, heavy metals and
chemicals. This use category is restricted to the I-2 (fmr. M-2) zoning
district.


ARTICLE 4 - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS

SECTION 401. JURISDICTION.

The provisions of this Ordinance shall govern the location and use of
buildings, structures, and land within the incorporated areas of
Talladega, Alabama.

SECTION 402. USE.

Except as hereinafter provided, no building or parcel of land shall
hereafter be used or occupied and no building or part thereof shall be
erected, moved, or altered except for a use permitted within the zoning
district in which it is located.

SECTION 403. HEIGHT AND DENSITY.

Except as hereinafter provided, no building shall hereafter be erected
or altered so as to exceed the height limit for the zoning district in
which it is located, nor shall any building or lot be used or occupied
hereafter for more families than permitted in the zoning district in
which it is located.

SECTION 404. YARD OCCUPANCY.

Except as hereinafter provided, no building shall hereafter be erected
or altered so as to occupy any yard required, for any other building,
nor shall any side, rear, or front yard be narrower or smaller than is
required for the zoning district in which it is located.

SECTION 405. YARD USE LIMITATION.

Except as hereinafter provided, no yard or other open space provided,
nor the off-street parking or loading spaces required, about any
building for the purpose of complying with the regulations of this
Ordinance shall hereafter be included as a part of a yard or other open
space or the off-street parking or loading spaces for any other
building.


ARTICLE 5 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 501. ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING PER LOT.

Within residential zoning districts, excepting group developments as
provided for in Section 2904, no more than one principal building with
its customary accessory buildings may occupy or be constructed upon, any
lot.

SECTION 502. REDUCTION IN LOT AREA.

No lot may be reduced in area below the minimum lot area as specified
herein for the zoning district within which said lot is located.

SECTION 503. YARD REQUIREMENTS OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.

The minimum yard requirements of this Ordinance also apply to accessory
buildings. However, accessory buildings may be located within rear yards
to within five feet of a rear or side lot line.

SECTION 504. ATTACHMENT OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS TO PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.

When an accessory building is attached to the principal building by a
breezeway, passageway, or similar means, it shall comply with the yard
requirements of the principal building to which it is attached.

SECTION 505. DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS.

Except as herein provided, no accessory building shall be located closer
than ten feet to a principal building or to any other accessory
building.

SECTION 506. FRONTAGE ON CORNER LOTS AND DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.

On lots having frontage on more than one street, the minimum front yard
shall be provided for each street in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance.

SECTION 507. ACCESS TO STREETS.

No building for human occupancy shall be erected without unrestricted
vehicular access to a public street.

SECTION 508. PREMISES IDENTIFICATION

All primary use structures and any buildings intended for habitation
and/or public assembly shall have approved address numbers, building
numbers or approved building identification placed in a position that is
plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the
property. These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address
numbers shall be Arabic numerals or Latin alphabet letters. Numbers
shall be a minimum of four (4) inches (102mm) high with a minimum stroke
width of one-half (0.5) inch (12.5mm). Secondary use structures used for
storage, housing machinery (i.e.: electrical, communications, HVAC) or
parking shall be exempt from this requirement.

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 6 - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

SECTION 601. DISTRICT DESIGNATIONS.

For the purpose of this ordinance, the City of Talladega, Alabama, is
hereby divided into the following regular and special zoning districts:

Regular Districts

-   R-1AG Rural Residential Agricultural

-   R-2 Rural Residential

-   R-3 Single Family Residential

-   R-4 Low-Density Multi-Family Residential

-   R-5 Medium-Density Multi-Family Residential

-   R-6 High-Density Multi-Family Residential

-   MHP Manufactured Home Park

-   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial

-   C-2 Central Business

-   C-3 General Commercial

-   C-4 Shopping Center District

-   O&S Offices and Services

-   I-P Institutional Park

-   I-1 Industrial

-   I-2 Industrial, Heavy

-   Special Districts

-   PUD Planned Unit Development

-   MHA Manufactured Home Area

-   FHZ Flood Hazard Zone

-   LHPD Local Historic Preservation District

-   ORA Outdoor Recreation Area

SECTION 602. ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.

The boundaries of the various zoning districts are hereby established as
shown on the Zoning Map. The Zoning Map shall include a base map which
identifies the location of the regular districts and an overlay to the
base map which outlines the boundaries of the special districts. The
Zoning Map and all explanatory matter thereon accompany and are hereby
made a part of this Ordinance. The official copies of the zoning map
shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk.

SECTION 603. INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.

Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any zoning district
shown on the Zoning Map the following rules shall apply:

1.  Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following street,
    alley, or highway lines, land district lines, creek lines, or lot
    lines, such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.

2.  In un-subdivided property or tracts, where a boundary divides a lot,
    the location of such a boundary, unless indicated by dimensions or
    as specified in Subsection 1 above, shall be determined by use of
    the scale appearing on the Zoning Map.

3.  In case any further uncertainty exists, the Planning Commission
    shall determine the location of boundaries.

4.  Where a public road, street, or alley is officially vacated or
    abandoned, the zoning district regulations shall apply to the land
    within such vacated or abandoned road, street, or alley.

5.  Where boundaries are indicated as being approximately parallel to
    the centerline or right-of-way lines of streets, alleys, or
    highways, such boundaries shall be construed as being parallel
    thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the Zoning
    Map.


ARTICLE 7 - R-1AG RURAL RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 701. LOCATIONAL INTENT.

The R-1AG zoning district is to be used in areas that do not yet have
public water and sewage service, thereby requiring large lot sizes in
order to avoid contamination of the ground water supply.

The use of RECREATIONAL VEHICLES for temporary and/or recreational
habitation as a DWELLING shall be prohibited for longer than thirty (30)
days within a ninety (90) day period without a permit from the City
except at designated campgrounds. Def. pg. 15, 9

The use of a TENT as a DWELLING shall not be permitted for longer than
thirty (30) days within a ninety (90) day period without a permit from
the City except at designated campgrounds. Def. pg. 18, 9

It is not the intent of this regulation to prevent the property owner or
lessor from occupying a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TENT if the PRINCIPAL
USE BUILDING has been damaged or otherwise temporarily rendered UNSAFE
or unsuitable for habitation or during the construction of a dwelling
for the duration that building permits are in force (but _not greater
than one hundred eighty days_). Def. pg. 15, 18, 5, 18

SECTION 702. USES PERMITTED.

-   One-FAMILY dwellings. Def. pg. 9 Further regulated in Section 5.01
    and Section 508.

-   ACCESSORY USE Def. pg. 2

-   AIRFIELDS when located on at least ten acres Def. pg. 2

-   AGRICULTURE, COMMERCIAL, provided that buildings used for housing
    fowl or animals, storing grain or feed or processing products shall
    not be located closer than one hundred (100) feet to any property
    line. Def. pg. 3

-   AGRICULTURE, NON-COMMERCIAL, provided that all related accessory
    buildings are located in the rear yard. Def. pg. 3

-   BUILDINGS, ACCESSORY Def. pg. 5

-   * CAMPGROUND, DEVELOPED OR UNDEVELOPED, provided that the property
    owner holds a current business license category 721210. For RVs
    (CAMPING, MODERN) the lot must be a minimum of five (5) acres.
    Vehicles shall be in a state such that they are ready for immediate
    road use and have a current registration. All external connections
    must be by quick-disconnects. Leveling and/or stabilization must be
    made with jacks or similar devices designed into the vehicle.

OR

Three (3) acres for tent, hammock etc. camping (CAMPING, PRIMITIVE.)
only. Def. pg. 6,

-   Cemeteries.

-   CHURCHES. Def. pg. 6

-   CLUB, Golf, public or private, type I or II

-   * CLUB, HUNTING/FISHING/GUN TYPE I OR II provided that any practice
    range or hunting area is permitted is located outside of the
    municipal boundary. Def. pg. 6 (Ord.1437) (13A-8-1(5))

-   DAY CARE SERVICES, public or private to include pre-schools, day
    nurseries, and kindergartens, provided that any play area is
    enclosed on all sides to a height of at least four (4) feet. Def.
    pg. 8

-   Equestrian Schools and Stables, provided that any structure, pen, or
    corral housing animals (but not including grazing areas) shall not
    be closer than one hundred (100) feet to any property line.

-   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Def. pg. 10 (Ord 1704)

-   KENNELS, provided that no portion of a building, structure, outdoor
    run or pen used to house or exercise such animals shall be located
    closer than one hundred (100) feet to any property line. Def. pg. 11
    (Ord 1799)

-   Off-street parking and loading spaces for vehicles in an operating
    condition only as an accessory use.

-   Private schools and publicly-owned and operated community structures
    and lands.

-   Public utility structures and lands.

-   QUARRYING Def. pg. 14

-   * RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK as a special use when located on at
    least five (5) acres. Def. pg. 15

-   Sale of products or commodities raised on the premises only,
    provided that any structure used for such sales shall not be closer
    than thirty

(30) feet to the front or side property lines.

-   Sawmills, if temporary or portable for the cutting of timber on the
    surrounding land, provided that machine operations are not located
    closer than two hundred (200) feet to any property line.

-   SIGNS, Accessory use. Def. pg. 16 (See Ord. 1847 21Mar2019)

-   SIGNS, Principal use.

-   TELECOMMUNICATIONS towers provided the fall zone does not encroach
    into any roadway rights-of-way, overhead utility easements or beyond
    the property boundary. Def. pg. 17

-   _* Indicates a conditional permitted use requiring a positive
    recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission and approval
    by Resolution from the City Council._

SECTION 703. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

-   WIDTH: 250 feet

-   DEPTH: 250 feet

-   AREA: Unless otherwise specified, two (2) acres; however, larger lot
    sizes may be required by the Talladega County Health Department, if
    ground water surveys and percolation tests so indicate.

SECTION 704. MINIMUM YARDS.

-   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: 50 feet from the right-of-way line of a
    thoroughfare. 40 feet from the right-of-way line of any other
    street.

-   SIDE: 15 feet

-   REAR: 40 feet

SECTION 705. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

Three stories or 45 feet, whichever is less.

SECTION 706. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 8 - R-2 RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 801. LOCATIONAL INTENT.

The R-2 zoning district is to be used in areas that have public water
supply but not public sewage service, thereby requiring large lots so
that private sewage disposal systems may function properly.

The use of RECREATIONAL VEHICLES for temporary and/or recreational
habitation as a DWELLING shall be prohibited for longer than thirty (30)
days within a ninety (90) day period without a permit from the City
except at designated campgrounds.

The use of a TENT as a DWELLING shall not be permitted for longer than
thirty (30) days within a ninety (90) day period without a permit from
the City except at designated campgrounds.

It is not the intent of this regulation to prevent the property owner or
lessor from occupying a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TENT if the PRINCIPAL
USE BUILDING has been damaged or otherwise temporarily rendered UNSAFE
or unsuitable for habitation or during the construction of a dwelling
for the duration that building permits are in force (but _not greater
than one hundred eighty days_). Def. pg. 15, 18, 5, 18

SECTION 802. USES PERMITTED.

-   One-FAMILY dwellings. Further regulated in Section 5.01 and Section

508. Def. pg. 9

-   ACCESSORY USE Def. pg. 2

-   AGRICULTURE, COMMERCIAL AND NON-COMMERCIAL Def. pg. 3

-   BUILDINGS, ACCESSORY Def. pg. 5

-   Buildings, Community or Public Service (must service a residential
    area)

-   Cemeteries.

-   CHURCHES Def. pg. 6

-   DAY CARE SERVICES, public or private to include pre-schools, day
    nurseries, and kindergartens, provided that any play area is
    enclosed on all sides to a height of at least four (4) feet provided
    that the City PLANNING COMMISSION reviews the site location and
    makes a recommendation to the CITY COUNCIL for the final approval or
    denial of the proposed location. Def. pg. 8

-   Golf courses, Public and private

-   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Def. pg. 10 (Ord 1704)

-   Equestrian Schools and Stables provided that any structure, pen or
    corral housing animals (but not including grazing areas) shall not
    be closer than one hundred (100) feet to any property line.

-   Off-street parking and loading spaces for vehicles in an operating
    condition only as an accessory use.

-   Parks, public (includes playgrounds)

-   Schools, private.

-   SIGNS, Accessory use Def. pg. 16 (See Ord. 1847 21Mar2019)

-   SIGNS, Principal use

-   Structures, UTILITIES, PUBLIC and land Def. pg. 19

-   Uses, Accessory

SECTION 803. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

-   WIDTH: 100 feet
-   DEPTH: 200 feet

-   AREA: Unless otherwise specified, twenty thousand (20,000) square
    feet; however, a larger lot size may be required by the Talladega
    County Health Department if percolation tests so indicate.

SECTION 804. MINIMUM YARDS.

-   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: 30 feet from the right-of-way line of a
    thoroughfare. 20 feet from the right-of-way line of any other
    street.

-   SIDE: 10 feet

-   REAR: 30 feet

SECTION 805. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

Three stories or 45 feet, whichever is less.

SECTION 806. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 9 - R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 901. LOCATIONAL INTENT.

The R-3 zoning district requires that both public water and public
sewage service be available.

The use of RECREATIONAL VEHICLES for temporary and/or recreational
habitation as a DWELLING shall be prohibited for longer than thirty (30)
days within a ninety (90) day period without a permit from the City
except at designated campgrounds.

The use of a TENT as a DWELLING shall not be permitted for longer than
thirty (30) days within a ninety (90) day period without a permit from
the City except at designated campgrounds.

It is not the intent of this regulation to prevent the property owner or
lessor from occupying a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TENT if the PRINCIPAL
USE BUILDING has been damaged or otherwise temporarily rendered UNSAFE
or unsuitable for habitation or during the construction of a dwelling
for the duration that building permits are in force (but _not greater
than one hundred eighty days_).

Def. pg. 15, 18, 5, 18

SECTION 902. USES PERMITTED.

Further regulated in Section 5.01 and Section 508.

-   One FAMILY-dwellings. Def. pg. 9

-   ACCESSORY USE Def. pg. 2

-   AGRICULTURE, NON-COMMERCIAL as an accessory use to a one-family
    dwelling for the principal benefit of the occupants thereof,
    provided that all related accessory buildings are located in the
    rear yard. Def. pg. 3

-   BUILDINGS, ACCESSORY Def. pg. 5

-   CHURCHES Def. pg. 6

-   Fowl, Keeping of, See Sect. 907

-   Golf courses, Public and private

-   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Def. pg. 10 (Ord. 1704)

-   Off-street parking and loading spaces for vehicles in an operating
    condition only as an accessory use.

-   Parks, public (includes playgrounds, community buildings, and
    similar public service facilities serving residential areas.)

-   Pre-School, public or private. Includes day nurseries and
    kindergartens (all play areas must be enclosed on all sides to a
    height of at least four feet) provided that the City Planning
    Commission reviews the site location and makes a recommendation to
    the City Council for the final approval or denial of the proposed
    location.

-   Schools, public and private.

-   SIGNS, Principal use- limited to subdivision signs. Def. pg. 16 (See
    Ord. 1847 21Mar2019)

-   SIGNS, Accessory- limited to those indicating that the property
    and/or structure thereon is for sale, rent or lease but not
    indicating the presence of a home occupation.

-   Structures, UTILITIES, PUBLIC and land Def. pg. 19

-   Uses, Accessory

SECTION 903. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

WIDTH: 85 feet

DEPTH: 120 feet

AREA: 11,000 square feet

SECTION 904. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

30 feet from the right-of-way line of a thoroughfare.

20 feet from the right-of-way line of any other street.

SIDE: 10 feet

REAR: 30 feet

SECTION 905. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

Three stories or 45 feet, whichever is less.

SECTION 906. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

SECTION 907. KEEPING FOWL IN R-3.

The keeping or maintaining of horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, hogs,
fowl or any other such animal shall be restricted to zoning districts
Rural Residential Agricultural (R-1AG) and Rural Residential (R-2)
except that the keeping of female FOWL is allowed within the R-3
Single-Family Residential Zoning district under the following
conditions:

Def. pg. 10

1.  The minimum lot size of the property is 11,000 square feet;

2.  The principal use of the property is a single-family dwelling;

3.  The number of FOWL does not exceed:

  a. eight (8) on lots 11,000 square feet to 19,999 square feet

  b. twelve (12) on lots 20,000 square feet or greater;

4. All fowl are kept in an enclosure or fenced area such as a henhouse,
coop or chicken tractor at all times;

5. The enclosure or fenced area is a minimum of six (6) square feet per
animal;

6. The FOWL are not kept in any location on the property other than in
the back yard (the rear yard of the principal structure);

7. The covered enclosure or fenced area is a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any property line of an adjacent property and thirty (30) feet from
neighboring dwellings, church, school, or place of business;

8. The enclosures are kept in a clean, dry, odor-free, neat, and
sanitary condition at all times;

9. The owner takes necessary action to reduce the attraction of
predators and rodents and the potential infestation of insects and
parasites;

10. Each bird shall have an identifying band on one or both legs.

The keeping of male fowl and the slaughtering of any fowl is strictly
prohibited inside of the R-3 district.

It shall be unlawful to engage in the breeding of fowl or the production
of fertilizer for commercial purposes.

It shall be unlawful for the owner of any fowl to allow the animal(s) to
be a nuisance to any neighbors, by but not limited to:

1.  Noxious odors from the animals or their enclosure.

2.  Noise of a loud and persistent and habitual nature.


ARTICLE 10 - R-4 LOW DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1001. USES PERMITTED.

The permitted uses and restrictions in Sections 901, through and
including 906 of the R-3 zoning district

Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

-   Two-FAMILY dwellings. Def. pg. 9

-   BOARDING HOUSE (or rooming house). Def. pg. 5

-   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS Def. pg. 7

-   Retail/Commercial personal services not as a HOME OCCUPATION,
    limited to barber shops and beauty/nail salons with not more than
    three

(3) customer stations, tax preparation and financial planning/consulting
    services, party/event spaces (without food preparation equipment)
    and catering services (preparation and storage of food prior to
    delivery only). Def. pg. 10

SECTION 1002. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

WIDTH: 75 feet for single-family detached dwellings and boarding and
rooming houses.

85 feet for two-family dwellings.

DEPTH: 100 feet.

AREA: 8,000 square feet for single-family detached dwellings and
boarding and rooming houses.

4,500 square feet per single-family attached dwelling unit.

SECTION 1003. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet from right-of-way line of a thoroughfare.

30 feet from right-of-way line of any other street.

SIDE: 10 feet

REAR: 40 feet

SECTION 1004. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

Three stories or forty-five (45) feet, whichever is less.

SECTION 1005. CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.

A cluster development shall conform to the following:

1.  A plan of the proposed development shall be submitted to the
    Planning Commission for view and approval before any site work is
    begun.

2.  No cluster development shall be less than ten (10) acres.

3.  There shall be no more than four single-family units per cluster.

4.  There shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet between each building
    cluster.

5.  All storm water runoff shall be retained on the site.

6.  At least twenty-five (25) percent of the net area shall be dedicated
    to open space/recreational uses (such as landscaping, bike paths,
    walkways, swimming areas, and recreation courts).

7.  An effort shall be made to maximize energy efficiency. Energy
    conservation measures which should be employed include one (1)
    consideration of a building’s solar orientation, (b) utilization of
    landscaping design techniques, and (c) dedication of an area for a
    community garden.

SECTION 1006. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING


ARTICLE 11 - R-5 MEDIUM DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1101. USES PERMITTED.

All permitted uses and restrictions of the R-4 zoning district

Further regulated in Section 5.01 and Section 508.

-   Condominiums.

-   Multi-FAMILY dwellings. Def. pg. 9

-   Nursing or convalescent homes.

-   TOWNHOUSES Def. pg. 18

SECTION 1102. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

WIDTH: 75 feet for all uses except two-family and multi-family
dwellings.

85 feet for two-family dwellings.

100 feet for multi-family dwellings.

DEPTH: 100 feet.

AREA: 8,000 square feet for all uses except two-family and multi-family
dwellings.

9,000 square feet for two-family dwellings.

3,500 square feet per family for multi-family dwellings. Approximately
12 apartments Per acre.

SECTION 1103. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet from the right-of-way line of a thoroughfare.

30 feet from the right-of-way line of any other street.

SIDE: 10 feet plus one foot for each foot of building height over
forty-five (45) feet. Side yard

Buffer shall be provided on lots utilized by multi-family structures.

REAR: 40 feet plus one foot for each foot of building height above
forty-five (45) feet. Rear yard

Buffer shall be provided on lots utilized by multi-family structures.

SECTION 1104. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

No limitations provided that minimum side and rear yard requirements are
increased one foot for each foot of building height above 45 feet.

SECTION 1105. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 12 - R-6 HIGH DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1201. USES PERMITTED.

All permitted uses and restrictions of the R-5 zoning district

Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

SECTION 1202. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

WIDTH: 75 feet for all uses except two-family and multi-family
dwellings.

85 feet for two-family dwellings.

100 feet for multi-family dwellings.

DEPTH: 100 feet

AREA: 8,000 square feet for all uses except two-family and multi-family

DWELLINGS: 9,000 square feet for two-family dwellings.

2,200 square feet per family for multi-family dwellings. Approximately
twenty (20) apartments per acre.

SECTION 1203. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet from the right-of-way line of a thoroughfare.

30 feet from the right-of-way line of any other street.

SIDE:

10 feet plus one foot for each foot of building height above 45 feet.

Side yard buffer shall be provided on lot utilized by multi-family
structures.

REAR:

40 feet plus one foot for each foot of building height above forty-five
(45) feet.

Side yard buffer shall be provided on lots utilized by multi-family
structures.

SECTION 1204. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

No limitation provided that minimum side and rear yard requirements are
increased one foot for each foot of building height above 45 feet.

SECTION 1205. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 13 - MHP MANUFACTURED HOME PARK RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1301. USES PERMITTED.

MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Def. pg. 12

Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

One-FAMILY dwelling for the exclusive use of a watchman, caretaker,
owner, or manager of a manufactured home park. Def. pg. 9

Laundromats (including coin operated dry cleaning) accessory to a
specific manufactured home park only.

Office and maintenance buildings incidental to a manufactured home park.

SIGN, Accessory use Def. pg. 16

SIGN, principal use

In addition to the manufactured home spaces, off-street parking and
loading spaces for vehicles in an operating condition only.

SECTION 1302. MANUFACTURED HOME PARK PLAN.

A manufactured home park shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
and shall conform to the following requirements:

1.  The proposed park shall be a minimum of 3.5 acres and shall be
    located on a well-drained site, properly graded to insure rapid
    drainage and freedom from standing water.

2.  No park shall exceed a density of eight (8) manufactured homes for
    each acre or portion of an acre within a park, as calculated on the
    basis of the total gross area within the park.

3.  No manufactured home or other building in the park shall be located
    closer than ten (10) feet to any property line of the park or when
    the park property adjoins a residential district, that particular
    district’s setback restrictions shall apply.

4.  A buffer shall be required along the side and rear lines of a
    manufactured home park.

5.  No structure or building other than a mobile home in a manufactured
    home park shall be used for dwelling purposes, other than a
    permanent structure used by a watchman, caretaker, manager, or
    owner.

6.  Spaces for individual manufactured homes shall be provided
    consisting of a minimum of five thousand (5,000) square feet for
    each space exclusive of common driveways and walkways, which space
    shall be at least fifty (50) feet wide and clearly defined.

7.  On each manufactured home space, there shall be provided at least
    two (2) paved off-street parking spaces for vehicles other than a
    manufactured home, each not less than ten (10) feet wide by
    twenty (20) feet long and connected by a paved twelve (12) foot wide
    drive to a common driveway or street.

8.  Manufactured homes shall be so located on mobile home spaces that
    there shall be at least a twenty (20) foot clearance between mobile
    homes, or between mobile homes and other buildings within the park.

9.  All manufactured home spaces shall abut a public street, or a paved
    driveway of not less than twenty (20) feet in width having
    unobstructed access to a public street, alley, or highway.

10. All driveways and walkways within the park shall be paved and
    adequately lighted.

11. Electrical outlets supplying at least one hundred ten (110) volts
    each shall be provided for each manufactured home space.

SECTION 1303. SANITARY FACILITIES IN MANUFACTURED HOMES.

Each manufactured home shall contain at least one (1) shower or tub, a
flush toilet, a lavatory, hot and cold running water and a source of
heat for the occupants thereof.

SECTION 1304. WATER SUPPLY.

All buildings and manufactured home spaces within the park shall be
connected to the public water supply system. Each mobile home space
shall be provided with a cold water tap at least four inches above the
ground. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS used solely for storage shall be exempt from
this requirement. Def. pg. 5

SECTION 1305. SEWAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL.

1.  Waste from showers, bath tubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories,
    and laundry facilities in a manufactured home and any other building
    within the park shall be discharged into the public sewer system in
    compliance with applicable ordinances or into a private disposal
    system approved by the County Health Officer, who may require soil
    percolation tests to be performed within the disposal area as a
    guide to the size, location and arrangement of the system.

2.  Each manufactured home space shall be provided with a tapped sewer
    at least four inches in diameter, which shall receive the waste from
    shower, bath tub, flush toilet, lavatory, laundry facilities and
    kitchen sink of the manufactured home harbored in such space. The
    trapped sewer in each space shall be connected to the public sewer
    system or a private disposal system approved by the Health Officer
    in accordance with application regulations.

SECTION 1306. GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.

Metal garbage containers (dumpsters) will be supplied by the property
owner. Manufactured home licensee will be responsible to see that all
garbage and rubbish are placed in the containers.

SECTION 1307. FIRE PROTECTION.

Every park shall be equipped at all times with fire hydrant equipment in
good working order, of such type, size and number so located within the
park as to satisfy applicable regulations of the City. No open fires
shall be permitted at any place which may endanger life or property. No
fires shall be left unattended at any time.

All roads, streets and access ways intended for vehicular use within a
Manufactured Home Park shall conform to current fire code standards for
width and length of turning radii and shall be compacted and surfaced in
such a manner as to reasonably accommodate the weight of fire apparatus
during inclement weather.

SECTION 1308. LICENSES REQUIRED.

No person shall maintain or operate a manufactured home park within the
City of Talladega without a license therefor. Existing parks shall make
application for initial license within ninety (90) days after the
adoption of this Ordinance.

SECTION 1309. LICENSE FEES.

The annual license fee for each manufactured home park shall be
according to the license fee schedule.

SECTION 1310. REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS.

It shall be the duty of each manufactured home park licensee to keep a
register containing a record of all manufactured home owners and
occupants located within the park. The register shall contain the
following information.

1.  The name and address of each manufactured home occupant.

2.  The name and address of the owner of each manufactured home and
    motor vehicle by which it is towed.

3.  The make, model, year, and vehicle registration number of each
    manufactured home and motor vehicle.

4.  The state, territory, or county in which vehicles are registered.

5.  The date of arrival and of departure of each manufactured home.

The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by public officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the
information contained in the register. The register record of registrant
shall not be destroyed for a period of three years following the date of
departure of the registrant from the park.

SECTION 1311. SUPERVISION.

The manufactured home park licensee, or a duly authorized attendant or
caretaker, shall be in charge at all times and shall keep the
manufactured home park, its facilities, and equipment in clean, orderly,
and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker will be answerable,
with the licensee, for the violation of any provisions of any Ordinance
to which the licensee is subject.

SECTION 1312. POSTING OF LICENSE.

The manufactured home park license shall be conspicuously posted in the
office of or on the premises of the manufactured home park at all times.

SECTION 1313. REVOCATION OF LICENSE.

The building inspector shall revoke any license to maintain and operate
a manufactured home park when the licensee has been found guilty by a
court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this
Ordinance. After such conviction, the license may be reissued if the
circumstances leading to conviction have been remedied.

SECTION 1314. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated above or in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.


ARTICLE 14 - C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1401. LOCATIONAL INTENT

Single or multiple attached structures housing low traffic intensity
businesses intended to serve the residential district in which they are
located.

SECTION 1402. USES PERMITTED.

All permitted uses and restrictions of the R-6 zoning district. (Ord
1805 19 Oct 2015)

Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

-   ACCESSORY USE Def. pg. 2

-   BUILDING, ACCESSORY Def. pg. 5

-   Building, Public (incl. utilities)

-   Business, Retail

-   Business, Service

-   Business, Personal Service

-   Business, Retail Service

-   BANK, (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 4

-   BAR (or LOUNGE/TAVERN) (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 4

-   Clinics, medical or dental Definition of use in Sect. 302.04

-   CLUB TYPE I or CLUB, TYPE II, public or private (Ord 1787 - 15
    Dec 2014) Def. pg. 6

-   CHURCHES Def. pg. 6

-   CONVENIENCE ORIENTED BUSINESS provided points of ingress and egress
    shall not be located closer than 50 feet to each other or to any
    street intersection and shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in
    width. Def. pg. 8

-   CREDIT UNION (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 8

-   LAND, PUBLIC Def. pg. 11

-   Laundry or dry cleaning pick-up stations

-   MANUFACTURING, INCIDENTAL Def. pg. 12

-   Offices, when all activities are located within the principal use
    building only. Use defined in Sect. 302.04

-   Off-street parking and loading spaces for vehicles in an operating
    condition only.

-   Radio, television, and appliance repair shops provided that not more
    than two (2) service vehicles are operated from the establishment

-   RESTAURANT, STANDARD Def. pg. 16

-   SAVINGS AND LOAN (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 16

-   Schools teaching art, dancing and music

-   SIGN, Accessory Def. pg. 16 (See Ord. 1847 21Mar2019)

-   SIGN, Principal use

SECTION 1403. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

Dwellings shall meet the requirements of the R-6 zoning district. For
all other uses:

WIDTH: None

DEPTH: None

AREA: None

SECTION 1404. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

30 feet from the right-of-way of a thoroughfare

30 feet from the right-of-way of any other street

SIDE:

None required, but not less than ten (10) feet if provided, except that
when adjoining a residential zoning district there shall be side yards
of not less than twenty (20) feet and a landscaped buffer shall be
provided.

REAR:

None required but if provided not less than ten (10) feet if provided,
except that when adjoining a residential zoning district there shall be
a rear yard of not less than forty (40) feet and a landscaped buffer
shall be provided.

SECTION 1405. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

Three (3) stories or forty-five (45) feet, whichever is less.

SECTION 1406. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING


ARTICLE 15 - C-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1501. USES PERMITTED.

The same permitted uses and restrictions of the R-6 and C-1 zoning
districts except automobile service, sales, and repair businesses are
permitted provided that no gasoline, diesel, or other fuel pumps are
located on the site but not in the Historic District - Ord 1741 – 3 Dec
2012)

Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

-   Antique Stores (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Art Gallery (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Beauty Salon (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Book Store (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   BARS (or Lounges/Taverns) (Ord 1787 – 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 4

-   Broadcasting stations (not in the Historic District - Ord 1741 – 3
    Dec

2012) 

-   Business schools (not in the Historic District - Ord 1741 – 3
    Dec 2012)

-   Business holding a Professional Business License (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec

2012) 

-   Carpentry, plumbing or painting shops provided that all storage and
    activities are located inside buildings but not in the Historic
    District
-   Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Continuing Education (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Floral Shop (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Laundry and dry-cleaning services.

-   Health and Personal care store (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Jeweler (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 12)

-   Laboratories (not in the Historic District - Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Loft Apartments (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Museums (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Nurseries and greenhouses but not in the Historic District - Ord
    1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Off-Premise Advertising Signs (Ord 1742)

-   Off-street parking service on a commercial basis but not in the
    Historic District (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Printing and engraving businesses but not in the Historic District
    (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   Real estate sales (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

-   RESTAURANT, STANDARD (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012) Def. pg. 16

-   Retail Apparel and Accessories, men’s and women’s (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec

2012) 

-   Schools, Art and Dance but not in the Historic District (Ord 1741 –
    3 Dec 2012)

-   Theater, Indoor (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 12)

-   Wholesale business, including storage and display but not in the
    Historic District (Ord 1741 – 3 Dec 2012)

SECTION 1502. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

WIDTH: None

DEPTH: None

AREA: None

SECTION 1503. MINIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

None.

SECTION 1505. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

None.

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 16 - C-3 GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1601. USES PERMITTED.

The same permitted uses and restrictions of the R-6 and C-1 zoning
district.

Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

-   ACCESSORY USE Def. pg. 2

-   Amusements, indoor theaters, or recreation businesses, but not
    including drive-in theaters

-   Automobile, farm implement, trailer, or manufactured home sales,
    service and repair but not including parts yards or junk yards

-   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATIONS Def. pg. 4

-   BANKS (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 4

-   BARS (or Lounge/Tavern) Def. pg. 4

-   Broadcasting stations

-   BUILDINGS, ACCESSORY Def. pg. 5

-   Business schools

-   CAMPGROUND, provided that the property owner hold a current business
    license category 721210. For RVs (CAMPING, MODERN) the lot must be a
    minimum of ten (10) acres, the vehicle shall be in a state such that
    it is ready for immediate road use and have a current registration.
    Any external connections must be by quick-disconnects. Leveling
    and/or stabilization must be made with jacks or similar devices
    designed into the vehicle or five (5) acres for tent, hammock etc.
    camping (CAMPING, PRIMITIVE.) The use of RECREATIONAL VEHICLES for
    temporary and/or recreational habitation as a DWELLING shall be
    prohibited for longer than thirty (30) days within a ninety (90) day
    period without a permit from the City. Defs. pg. 6, 15, 9

-   Carpentry, plumbing or painting shops, provided that all storage and
    activities are located inside buildings

-   CREDIT UNIONS (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 8

-   DEFERRED PRESENTMENT SERVICES (Pay Day Loans & similar) (Ord 1787 -
    15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 8

-   Exterior Storage but not Junk or Parts Yards (Def. pg.#)

-   Gift and hobby shops

-   HOTELS Def. pg. 11

-   Laboratories

-   Laundry and dry cleaning services including pick-up stations and
    self-service laundry and dry cleaning establishments

-   Mortuaries

-   NIGHT CLUBS (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 13

-   Nurseries and greenhouses

-   Off-Premise Advertising Signs (Ord 1742)

-   Off-street parking and loading spaces for vehicles in operating
    condition only.

-   Off-street parking service on a commercial basis

-   PACKAGE STORES Def. pg. 14

-   Printing and engraving businesses

-   Professional offices Definition of use in Sect. 302.04

-   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD and STANDARD Def. pg. 15, 16

-   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS provided the fall zone does not encroach
    into any roadway Rights-of-Way, overhead utility easements or beyond
    the property boundary. Def. pg. 17

-   Tire re-treading and re-capping establishments, provided that no
    building for such use shall have any openings other than stationary
    windows, within 100 feet of a residential district and provided
    further that all storage and processing is located within an
    enclosed building

-   UTILITIES, PUBLIC (structures and land) Def. pg. 19

-   Wholesale businesses, including storage and display

SECTION 1602. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

Dwellings shall meet the requirements of the R-6 zoning district. For
all other uses:

WIDTH: None

DEPTH: None

AREA: None

SECTION 1603. MINIMUM YARDS.

Dwellings shall meet the requirements of the R-6 zoning district.

For all other uses:

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet from the right-of-way of a thoroughfare

30 feet from the right-of-way of any other street

SIDE:

If commercial lot area is less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet,
then no side yard setback is required, but not less than 10 feet if
provided, except when adjoining a residential zoning district there
shall be a side yard of not less than twenty (20) feet plus one (1) foot
for each foot of building height above twenty (20) feet.

If commercial lot area is ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more,
then no side yard setback is required, but not less than twenty (20)
feet if provided, except when adjoining a residential zoning district
there shall be a side yard of not less than forty (40) feet plus one (1)
foot for each foot in height above twenty (20) feet.

Side yard buffer shall be provided when property adjoins residential
district.

REAR:

None required but if provided not less than ten (10) feet plus one (1)
foot for each foot in height above forty (40) feet if lot area is less
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet or not less than 20 feet plus one
(1) foot for each foot in height above forty (40) feet if lot area is
ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more. If lot adjoins a residential
district, a rear yard setback of not less than forty (40) feet plus one
(1) foot for each foot in height above forty (40) feet is required and a
rear yard buffer shall be provided.

SECTION 1604. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

None

SECTION 1605. ACCESS AND CURB CUTS.

Access to each business activity located on a lot which is at least ten
thousand (10,000) square feet in area shall be only at clearly defined
and marked entrances and exits no greater than twenty-five (25) feet in
width separated by a curb or similar barrier to vehicular movement of at
least twenty-five (25) feet in length; provided that this shall not
preclude the construction of special turnout lanes in the center of or
along the side of the abutting roadway.

SECTION 1606. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING. {#sec1606}

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING


ARTICLE 17 - C-4 SHOPPING CENTER COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1701. USES PERMITTED.

Same as permitted and regulated in the C-1 Zoning District

Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

-   Amusement, theatres, or recreational businesses, but not including
    drive-in theatres

-   Automobile showrooms, provided that no more than ten (10)
    automobiles may be displayed outside per agency.

-   HOTEL Def. pg. 11

-   Off-Premise Advertising Signs (Ord 1847)

-   PACKAGE STORE Def. pg. 14

-   Parking Garage or Lot

-   Public buildings

-   RESTAURANTS, FAST FOOD and STANDARD Def. pg. 15, 16

SECTION 1702. ACCESS AND CURB CUTS.

Access to each business activity shall be only at clearly defined and
marked entrances and exits no greater than 25 feet in width separated by
a curb or similar barrier to vehicular movement of at least 25 feet in
length: provided that this shall not preclude the construction of
special turnout lands in the center of or along the sides of the
abutting roadway.

SECTION 1703. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

Dwellings shall meet the requirements of the R-6 zoning district. For
all other uses:

WIDTH: None

DEPTH: None

AREA: None

SECTION 1704. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet

SIDE:

None required, but not less than twenty (20) feet if provided, except
that side yards adjacent to residential zoning districts there shall be
not less than twenty (20) feet plus one foot for each foot in height
above twenty (20) feet. Side yard buffer shall be provided when property
adjoins residential district.

REAR:

None required, but not less than twenty (20) feet if provided, except
that rear yards adjacent to residential zoning districts there shall be
not less than forty (40) feet plus one (1) foot for each foot in height
above forty (40) feet. Rear yard buffer shall be provided when property
adjoins residential district.

SECTION 1705. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

None

SECTION 1706. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING


ARTICLE 18 - O&S OFFICES AND SERVICES ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1801. USES PERMITTED.

See section 302.04 for definition of use

-   CHURCHES Def. pg. 6

-   Clinics (not Veterinarian)

-   Drugstores and apothecaries.

-   Florists when all activities are within a building.

-   Laundry and dry-cleaning pick-up and drop-off

-   Medical/Dental Offices and Services (not Veterinarian)

-   Nursing Services

-   Off-street parking and loading space for vehicles in an operating
    condition only when accessory to the principal use of the premises.

*Professional offices.

-   RESTAURANT, STANDARD- when an accessory use of another permitted
    use. Def. pg. 16

-   SIGN, Accessory Def. pg. 16 (See Ord. 1847 21Mar2019)

-   SIGN, Principal use

-   Small gift shops when incidental and subordinate to other permitted
    uses.

SECTION 1802. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

WIDTH: None

DEPTH: None

AREA: None

SECTION 1803. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE: 40 feet from the right-of-way line of a
thoroughfare. 30 feet from the right-of-way line of other streets.

SIDE:

Not required, but not less than twenty (20) feet if provided, except
that side yards adjacent to residential zoning districts shall not be
less than twenty (20) feet plus one foot for every foot in height above
twenty (20) feet.

REAR:

Not required, but not less than twenty (20) feet if provided, except
that rear yards adjacent

To residential zoning districts shall not be less than forty (40) feet
plus one (1) foot for every foot in height above forty (40) feet.

SECTION 1804. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

None.

SECTION 1805. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING


ARTICLE 19 - I-P INSTITUTIONAL PARK ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 1901. USES PERMITTED.

-   Accessory uses incidental to or of service to the occupants of the
    above uses only, such as offices, apothecaries, laundries, eating
    facilities, maintenance shops, storage areas, and recreation
    facilities.

-   CHURCHES Def. pg. 6

-   DWELLINGS normally considered to be an integral part of one of the
    above uses, such as dormitories, faculty housing, and fraternity or
    sorority houses, when located within the contiguous geographical
    area designated as the campus or institutional site. Def. pg. 9

-   Educational, training, health, medical, or nursing uses of a public,
    charitable, or philanthropic nature, including rest homes and
    sanitariums.

-   Federal, state or local correctional institutions provided that site
    designs are approved by the PLANNING COMMISSION. Def. pg. 14

-   Public utility structures and lands.

-   SIGNS, Accessory (See Ord 1847) Def. pg. 16 (See Ord. 1847
    21Mar2019)

-   SIGNS, Principal use

SECTION 1902. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

No requirements for non-residential buildings.

Single-family dwellings must meet requirements for the R-3 zoning
district; all other dwellings must meet the requirements of the R-6
zoning district. Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

SECTION 1903. MINIMUM YARDS.

No requirements for non-residential buildings.

Single-family dwellings must meet requirements of the R-3 zoning
district; all other dwellings must meet the requirements of the R-6
zoning district. Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

SECTION 1904. MAXIMIZE BUILDING HEIGHT.

No limitations, provided that applicable minimum side and rear yard
requirements are increased one foot for each foot of building height
above 45 feet.

SECTION 1905. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 20 - I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 2001. CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.

All uses in the I-1 Industrial Zoning District shall be constructed,
maintained, and operated so as to not be injurious or offensive to the
occupants of adjacent premises by reason of the emission or creation of
noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other particulate matter, toxic or
noxious waste materials, odors, fire, and explosive hazard, or glare.
Such conditions shall not be detectable at the property line of each use
without the aid of instruments. Within 100 feet of a residential zoning
district, all processes and storage (except of vehicles) shall be within
enclosed buildings. The definition for this category of use is located
in Sect. 302.06

Further regulated in Section 508.

SECTION 2002. USES PERMITTED

-   ACCESSORY USE Def. pg. 2

-   AGRICULTURE, Def. pg. 2

-   Automotive, farm implement, or mobile home or trailer sales, service
    and repair, but not including parts yards or junk yards.

-   BANKS (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 4

-   CREDIT UNIONS (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 8

-   BARS, LOUNGES AND CLUBS (TYPE I & II) (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def.
    pg. 4, 6

-   Bottling plants or dairies.

-   Building materials storage or wholesaling

-   BUILDING, ACCESSORY Def. pg. 5

-   Construction Yards

-   Contractor’s Yards

-   Greenhouses and florists

-   Laundry and dry cleaning plants

-   Laboratories

-   Lumber yards

-   Manufacturing, fabricating, processing, assembling, repair or
    servicing or any product or commodity

-   MOTELS Def. pg. 13 (redirect to pg.11)

-   Offices See Sect 302.04 for Definition of use

-   Petroleum products, storage or sales

-   Storage or warehousing facilities

-   RESTAURANTS, FAST FOOD and STANDARD Def. pg. 15, 16

-   Retail businesses

-   SAVINGS AND LOANS (Ord 1787 - 15 Dec 2014) Def. pg. 16

-   Service businesses

-   SIGNS, Accessory (See Ord. 1847) Def. pg. 16 (See Ord. 1847
    21Mar2019)

-   SIGNS, Off-Premise Advertising Def. pg. 16 (See Ord. 1847 21Mar2019)

-   SIGNS, Principal use

-   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS Def. pg. 17 (redirects to pg. 20)

-   Theatres, including drive-in theatres

-   Truck terminals

-   Utilities, Public (structures and land) Def. pg.19

-   Veterinarian offices and kennels

-   Wholesale businesses.

SECTION 2003. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

WIDTH: None

DEPTH: None

AREA: None

SECTION 2004. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet from the right-of-way line of a thoroughfare.

30 feet from the right-of-way line of other streets.

SIDE:

Not required, but not less than 20 feet if provided, except that side
yards adjacent to residential zoning districts shall be not less than 20
feet plus one foot for every foot in height above 20 feet. Side yard
buffer shall be provided when property adjoins residential district.

REAR:

Not required, but not less than 20 feet if provided, except that rear
yards adjacent to residential zoning districts shall not be less than 40
feet plus one foot for every foot in height above 40 feet. Rear yard
buffer shall be provided when property adjoins residential district.

SECTION 2005. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT

None.

SECTION 2006. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 21 - I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 2101. CONDITIONS OF OPERATIONS.

All uses in the I-2 Industrial Zoning District shall be constructed,
maintained, and operated so as to not be injurious or offensive to the
occupants of nearby premises, by reason of the emission or creation of
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, or other particulate matter, toxic or
noxious waste materials, odors, fire, and explosive hazards, or glare.
Such conditions shall not be detectable at the boundary of the I-2
zoning district without the aid of instruments.

SECTION 2102. USES PERMITTED.

All uses permitted in the I-1 Limited Industrial zoning district.

Automobile wrecking or JUNK YARDS when completely enclosed by a solid
fence having a minimum height of six feet, but in no case less than such
a height as will screen all operations from view, and with no part of
the operations located closer than 100 feet to a residential zoning
district. See pg.# See Sect 302.06 for Definition of use.

SECTION 2103. MINIMUM BUILDING SITE.

WIDTH: None

DEPTH: None

AREA: None

SECTION 2104. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet from the right-of-way line of a thoroughfare.

30 feet from the right-of-way line of any other street.

SIDE:

Not required, but not less than 20 feet if provided, except that side
yards adjacent to residential zoning districts shall be not less than
twenty (20) feet plus one (1) foot for every foot in height above twenty
(20) feet. Side yard buffer shall be provided when property adjoins
residential district.

REAR:

Not required, but not less than twenty (20) feet if provided, except
that rear yards adjacent to residential zoning districts shall not be
less than forty (40) feet plus one foot for every foot in height above
forty (40) feet. Rear yard buffer shall be provided when property
adjoins residential district.

SECTION 2105. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

None.

SECTION 2106. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article, 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

.

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 22 - PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT ZONING DISTRICT

SECTION 2201. CONDITIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT.

In order to change the regular district designation of a tract of land
to PUD- Planned Unit Development, and to subsequently thereby use such a
tract of land, the following conditions shall be met:

1.  A master plan of development showing the exact manner in which the
    whole tract will be improved and used must accompany the request for
    change of zoning, be approved by the City Council after being
    reviewed by the Planning Commission, and be retained in the file of
    the City Clerk as a part of the City’s records on that ordinance
    changing this zoning ordinance.

2.  Before any building or occupancy permit for the use or development
    of any portion of a PUD zoning district can be issued, a subdivision
    plat, or plats, for the whole tract shall have been approved by the
    Planning Commission and recorded in accordance with the Subdivision
    Regulations; such plat or plats and any information shown thereon
    shall correspond in all respects to the approved master plan of
    development, and the information recorded along with the subdivision
    plat or plats shall include the master plan of development. No
    permit of any type shall be issued for any use, activity, building,
    or site improvement that is not in accordance with the approved and
    recorded master plan of development.

3.  The master plan of development for a tract may be amended at any
    time by the City Council, upon the advice of the Planning
    Commission, provided a notice is given and a public hearing held
    thereon in the same manner as for the original approval of the
    change of zoning for the subject tract to a PUD zoning district
    classification.

4.  The minimum size of the tract shall be ten (10) acres, or the tract
    shall be located wholly within areas designated as blighted
    according to the 1978 Talladega Land Use and Housing Plan, or the
    tract shall be included within the site of an officially approved
    predominantly low or moderate income housing project.

5.  The master plan of development shall be in accordance with and shall
    be designed to ~~implement~~ compliment the Comprehensive Plan.

6.  Landscaping and open space shall be an essential part of the master
    plan. At least twenty-five (25) percent of the net area shall be
    dedicated to open space/recreational uses (such as landscaping, bike
    paths, walkways, swimming areas, and recreational courts.) Existing
    trees and natural features shall be preserved wherever possible.

7.  Insofar as possible, vehicular traffic shall be separated from
    pedestrian traffic.

8.  The vehicular traffic generated by the proposed development shall
    not exceed the capacity of access streets, and shall not disrupt
    established residential areas.

9.  The capacity of existing or scheduled utility systems or schools
    serving the proposed development shall not be exceeded; in large
    tracts that will eventually contain a large number of families, a
    school site shall be platted and dedicated to the school board upon
    the recordation of an approved Subdivision Plat.

10. An effort shall be made to maximize energy efficiency. Energy
    conservation measures which should be employed include:

(a) consideration of a building’s solar orientation,

(b) utilization of landscape design techniques, and

(c) dedication of an area for a community garden.

11. All storm water runoff shall be retained on the site.

SECTION 2202. USES PERMITTED.

Any use shall be permitted except for manufactured homes, provided that
such use is in accordance with the 1978 Talladega Land Use and Housing
Plan and is shown and designated clearly on the master plan of
development.

SECTION 2203. MINIMUM BUILDING SITES.

No minimum building site is required, provided that the land used for
building coverage and off-street parking and loading spaces as required
in Article 27, does not preclude adequate open spaces for landscaping,
and for recreation facilities for the occupants of dwellings. The
proposed minimum and average building sites, the resulting average net
density (families per acre of residential land use), the total land used
for every purpose (including rights-of-way), the number of off-street
parking and loading spaces for each use area, and the total and average
land area covered by the buildings in each use area, shall all be
calculated and shown on the master plan of development.

SECTION 2204. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet from the right-of-way line of a thoroughfare.

30 feet from the right-of-way line of any other dedicated street.

YARDS:

No building shall be closer than fifteen (15) feet to any PUD zoning
district boundary line, provided that no entrance of any building shall
be closer than 25 feet to any such line.

SPACE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:

Within a PUD zoning district the minimum space between buildings shall
be as Specified for group developments in Section 2904.

SECTION 2205. MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.

None.

SECTION 2206. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

SECTION 2207. ACCESSIBILITY.

Access shall be provided to each separately platted building site by way
of a publicly dedicated street plus a driveway or clearway of at least
twelve (12) feet in width.


ARTICLE 23 - AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD

SECTION 2301. LOCATIONAL INTENT.

Areas of Special Food Hazard identified on the “Flood Hazard Boundary
Map” (also known as a Flood Insurance Rate Map or FIRM, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency). These areas lie within the 1%
chance of flooding elevation. The intent of this district is to minimize
property damage and the personal losses resulting from flood conditions.

SECTION 2302. USES PERMITTED.

Same uses as identified according to the underlying regular zoning
district.

SECTION 2303. SITE RESTRICTIONS.

Same restrictions as described in the underlying regular zoning district
and the City of Talladega Flood Ordinance Number 1854 (dated 23 Sept
2019).

No portion of any structure may extend into a designated floodway
without a FEMA approved “No Rise” certificate.


ARTICLE 24 - MHA MANUFACTURED HOME AREA ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT

SECTION 2401. USES PERMITTED.

-   MANUFACTURED HOMES.

-   One-family dwellings.

Further regulated in Section 501 and Section 508.

-   BUILDINGS, ACCESSORY USE

-   CHURCHES Def. pg. 6

-   Golf Courses, Public or Private

-   HOME OCCUPATIONS Def. pg. 10 (Ord. 1704)

-   Off-street parking and loading spaces for vehicles in an operating
    condition only as an accessory use.

-   Public parks, playgrounds, community buildings, and similar public
    service facilities serving residential areas.

-   Schools, public or private, but not including private kindergartens
    or nursery schools

-   SIGNS, Accessory Def. pg. 16 (See Ord. 1847 21Mar2019)

-   SIGNS, Principal use

-   UTILITY, PUBLIC (structures and land) Def. pg. 19

SECTION 2402. LOCATION OF MANUFACTURED HOMES.

Only one manufactured home shall be placed on one single-family lot as
permitted in R-1, R-2, and R-3 zoning districts.

SECTION 2403. MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet from the right-of-way line of a thoroughfare.

30 feet from the right-of-way line of any other street.

SIDE: 10 feet

REAR: 40 feet

SECTION 2404. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 25 - HP HISTORICAL PRESERVATION ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT

SECTION 2501. LOCATIONAL INTENT.

The location of the Historical Preservation Zoning District corresponds
to the sites that comprise the City of Talladega’s locally regulated
historic districts. They are:

-   The Talladega County Court House Square Historic District (C-2)

-   The Silk Stocking Historic District (R-3, R-4, R-5, I-P)

-   Bishop Flats (C-3)

-   Talladega College (I-P)

This special zoning district is intended to provide the city’s most
architecturally unique and historically significant sites with
additional protection against deterioration and decline.

SECTION 2502. CONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATION RESTRICTIONS.

For all properties within the locally regulated Historical Preservation
Districts, all requests for a building permit involving new structures
or alterations to building exteriors or a sign permit shall be referred
to the Historic Preservation Commission (HPC) for review in accordance
with Ordinance 1249. Before a permit can be issued, the HPC must issue a
Certificate of Appropriateness (C.O.A.) detailing the approved work.

SECTION 2503. HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.

The Historic Preservation Commission of the City of Talladega is hereby
established by Ordinance 1249.

SECTION 2504. USES PERMITTED.

Same uses as identified according to the underlying regular zoning
district.

SECTION 2505. SITE RESTRICTIONS.

In addition to the site restrictions already mentioned in Section 2502,
the same regulations as described in the text of the corresponding
regular zoning district shall be followed.

SECTION 2506. CONFLICTS

If Section 2502 this ordinance conflicts with Talladega City Ordinance
1249, then Ordinance 1249 shall govern.

If Section 2504 of this ordinance conflicts with Section 4.04 of
Talladega City Ordinance 1847 (Sign), then Ordinance 1847 shall govern.

No portion of this section shall supersede the requirements of the
current International Fire Code or International Building Code adopted
by the City.

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 26 - ODR OUTDOOR RECREATION AREA ZONING DISTRICT (OVERLAY)

SECTION 2601 PERMITTED USES

All permitted uses in the underlying zoning district

One-FAMILY dwelling for the exclusive use of a watchman, caretaker,
owner, or manager.

BUILDINGS, ACCESSORY Def. pg. 5

CAMPGROUND, DEVELOPED OR UNDEVELOPED provided that the property owner
holds a current business license category 721210.

-   For campgrounds that allow RVs, all vehicles shall be in a state
    such that they are ready for immediate road use and have a current
    registration. All external connections must be by quick-disconnects.
    Leveling and/or stabilization must be made with jacks or similar
    devices designed into the vehicle.

-   All tent and RV sites where open burning is permitted shall be
    equipped with a fire ring and/or a cleared location for placement of
    a portable grill or fire pan.

Def. pg. 6

CLUB, Golf, public or private, type I or II. Def. pg. 6

CLUB, HUNTING/FISHING/GUN TYPE I OR II and other similar recreational
enterprises when located on at least ten acres and all activities are
located at least two hundred (200) feet from any property line. Def. pg.
# Def. pg. 6

Equestrian Schools and Stables, provided that any structure, pen, or
corral housing animals (but not including grazing areas) shall not be
closer than one hundred (100) feet to any property line.

Laundromats as an accessory to a specific Outdoor Recreation Area only.

Off-street parking and loading spaces for vehicles in an operating
condition only as an accessory use.

Playgrounds for the exclusive use of the owner/caretaker and customers

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK provided that the property owner holds a
current business license category 721210 and/or license category 493110
(General Warehousing and Storage) if the vehicle is placed for purpose
of long-term storage. The vehicle shall be in a state such that it is
ready for immediate road use and have a current registration. Any
external connections must be by quick-disconnects. Leveling and/or
stabilization must be made with jacks or similar devices designed into
the vehicle. Def. pg. 5

SIGNS, Accessory Def. pg. 16 (See Ord. 1847 21Mar2019)

SIGNS, Principal use

UTILITY, PUBLIC (including structures and land) Def. pg.19

SECTION 2602 REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS.

It shall be the duty of each Campground and Recreational Vehicle Park
licensee to keep a register containing a record of all occupants located
within the park. The register shall contain the following information.

1.  The name and address of each site occupant.

2.  The name and address of the owner of each recreational
    vehicle/recreational trailer and motor vehicle by which it is towed.

3.  The make, model, year, and vehicle license plate number of each
    recreational vehicle/recreational trailer and motor vehicle by which
    it is towed.

4.  The state, territory, or county in which vehicles are registered.

5. The date of arrival and of departure of each registered guest.

The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by public officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the
information contained in the register. The register record of registrant
shall not be destroyed for a period of three years following the date of
departure of the registrant from the park.

SECTION 2603 DENSITY OF SITES

The maximum number of sites available for the permitted use of
Campground, Developed or Undeveloped shall not exceed eight (8) RV sites
or twelve (12) tent sites per acre.

SECTION 2604 SANITARY WASTE DISPOSAL

All campgrounds and Recreational Vehicle Parks shall provide facilities
for the disposal of human waste which is available to guests at all
times. These may include, but are not limited to, portable toilets and
permanent or prefabricated restroom facilities with either a sewer
connection or approved septic system.

SECTION 2605 PERIOD OF USE

No person except the owner, caretaker, manager or watchman occupying the
one-family dwelling (if present) may inhabit the property for longer
than fourteen (14) days within a thirty (30) day period.

SECTION 2606

Reserved

SECTION 2607 GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.

Metal garbage containers (dumpsters) will be supplied by the owner. Each
licensee will be responsible to see that all garbage and rubbish are
placed in the containers.

SECTION 2608 LICENSES REQUIRED.

No person shall maintain or operate a CLUB, CAMPGROUND or RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE PARK within the City of Talladega without all applicable
licenses and permits.

SECTION 2609 FIRE PROTECTION.

Every RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK and CAMPGROUND which has accommodations
for open fires shall be equipped at all times with fire suppression
equipment in good working order, of such type, size and number so
located within the park as to satisfy applicable regulations of the
City. No open fires shall be permitted at any place which may endanger
life or property. No fires shall be left unattended at any time.

SECTION 2610 FIRST RESPONDER ACCESS

All roads, streets and access ways intended for vehicular use within a
campground or RV Park shall conform to current standards for width and
length of turning radii and shall be compacted and surfaced in such a
manner as to reasonably accommodate the weight of fire apparatus during
inclement weather. Pathways intended for the use of off-road vehicles,
non-motorized vehicles and/or pedestrians are exempt from this
requirement.

SECTION 2611 MINIMUM YARDS.

BUILDING SETBACK LINE:

40 feet from the right-of-way line of a thoroughfare.

30 feet from the right-of-way line of any other street.

SIDE: 10 feet

REAR: 40 feet

SECTION 2612 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.

As stated in Article 27, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING


ARTICLE 27 - OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

SECTION 2701. OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.

There shall be provided on every lot on which any of the following uses
are hereafter established or enlarged, off-street parking spaces of
adequate size for the parking of automobiles of standard size. Only
vehicles in operating condition shall occupy such spaces. Each space
shall be accessible from a driveway. Except for one-and two-family
dwellings, maneuvering and turning areas shall be provided so that no
vehicles will be required to back into a street. Spaces shall be a
minimum of twenty-two (22) feet in width for perpendicular parking,
eighteen (18) feet in width for sixty (60°) degree parking and fifteen
(15) feet in width for forty-five (45°) degree parking. All spaces shall
be a minimum of twenty (20) feet deep and delineated by striping. Curb
and gutter or wheel-stop devices shall be provided. The surface shall be
improved and sufficiently hardened to accommodate commercial truck
traffic and drained in a manner that run-off does not impact neighboring
property(ies). Alternate parking spaces other than the “standard” stalls
described above may be considered on a case by case basis. The number of
spaces shall be equal to at least the minimum requirements for the
specific use with which associated as set forth below:

-   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS- Four (4) parking spaces for each
    service bay or similar facility plus one space for each attendant.
    Def

-   CHURCHES, THEATRES, AUDITORIUMS, CLUBS, STADIUM, OR OTHER PLACES OF
    PUBLIC ASSEMBLY- One (1) parking space for each four (4) seats in
    the principal assembly room or area.

-   DWELLINGS- Two (2) parking spaces for each dwelling unit.

-   EDUCATIONAL OR INSTITUTIONAL CAMPUS FACILITIES – One (1) parking
    space for each two (2) employees plus one (1) space for each vehicle
    used directly in the support of the facility.

-   EDUCATIONAL HOUSING DORMITORIES, FRATERNITY, SORORITY, OR GROUP
    ACCOMMODATIONS – Four (4) spaces per room or equivalent capacity
    within four hundred linear feet of the main entrance of the
    structure either on campus or on public property set aside for the
    purpose of off-street parking.

-   HOSPITALS, SANITARIUMS, OR NURSING HOMES - One parking space for
    every two (2) patient beds plus one (1) space for every three (3)
    staff members. (Ord 1466 – 3 Aug 1999)

-   MOTELS AND HOTELS- One (1) parking space for each room offered for
    guest accommodation.

-   MOBILE HOME PARKS- Two (2) parking spaces for each mobile home
    space.

-   OFFICES, OR PROFESSIONAL OR PUBLIC BUILDINGS- One (1) parking space
    for each two hundred square feet of floor area, or four spaces for
    each separate office, whichever is greater.

-   OUTDOOR RECREATION AREAS (CAMPGROUNDS, MODERN OR PRIMITIVE) – One

(1) parking space per single RV or tent site. Four (4) parking spaces
    for group sites intended for use by ten (10) or more persons or one
(2) parking space per two (2) tent pads.

-   RETAIL OR WHOLESALE TRADES OR SERVICES – Five (5) parking spaces for
    each one thousand square feet of area devoted to trade or service
    activity, plus one parking space for each vehicle used directly in
    the conduct of the enterprise. (Ord 1466 - 3 Aug 1999)

-   ROOMING HOUSES, BOARDING HOUSES, AND TOURIST HOMES- One (1) parking
    space for each rental room.

-   SHOPPING CENTERS – Five (5) parking spaces for each one thousand
    square feet of area devoted to trade or service activity. (Ord 1466
    - 3 Aug 1999)

-   WAREHOUSING, MANUFACTURING, OR INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS- One (1)
    parking space for each two employees plus one parking space for each
    vehicle used directly in the conduct of the enterprise.

-   OTHER USES- The requirements of the most similar use specifically
    mentioned in this section shall apply.

SECTION 2702. LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES.

Except for one- and two-family dwellings, if the required off-street
parking spaces cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which
the principal use is conducted, such spaces may be provided on other
off-street property, provided the spaces lie within 400 feet of the main
entrance to the principal use. Such parking spaces shall be associated
with the permitted use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached
upon in any manner.

SECTION 2703. TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTIONS.

No truck parking shall be permitted in any residential district greater
than a ¾ ton pick-up truck except a truck or commercial vehicle not
greater than 1 ½ tons may be parked in an accessory structure within a
residential district.

SECTION 2704. OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES.

Every building used for business, trade, or industry shall provide
spaces as indicated below for the loading and unloading of vehicles off
the street or public alley. Such spaces shall have access to a public
alley, or, if there is no alley, to a public street.

RETAIL BUSINESS AND SERVICES- One space ten (10) feet by 25 feet for
each five thousand (5,000) square feet of floor area or part thereof.

WHOLESALE BUSINESSES AND INDUSTRIES- one space ten (10) feet by fifty
(50) feet for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area or
part thereof.

BUS AND TRUCK TERMINALS-Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum
number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loading or unloading at
the terminal at any time.

SECTION 2705. CONTINUING CHARACTER OF OBLIGATION.

Required off-street parking and loading spaces associated with newly
erected or altered buildings or newly established uses of land shall be
a continuing obligation of the owner of said building or land so long as
the structure or use exists or its use requiring vehicle parking or
loading facilities continues, and it shall be unlawful for said owner to
discontinue, change of dispense with, or to cause the discontinuation or
change of the required vehicle parking or loading spaces apart from the
discontinuance, sale or transfer of the building or use without
establishing alternative vehicle parking or loading spaces which meet
the requirements of and are in compliance with this Ordinance, or for
any person to use a building or lot without providing vehicle parking or
loading spaces which meet the requirements of and are in compliance with
this Ordinance.

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 28 - DRIVEWAYS AND FENCES

SECTION 2801. DRIVEWAYS

ALL DRIVEWAYS CONNECTING TO A ROAD OR STREET OWNED AND/OR MAINTAINED BY
THE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT OF THE CITY OF TALLADEGA SHALL BE PERMITTED
BY THE BUILDING INSPECTOR AND THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS

SECTION 2802. DRIVEWAY CROSS-DRAIN PIPES

ALL DRIVEWAY CROSS-DRAIN PIPES SHALL BE OF A MATERIAL APPROVED BY THE
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS AND PLACED SO THAT THE INLET AND OUTLET ENDS
ARE AT THE DEPTH SPECIFIED BY THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.

ALTERNATELY, THE PROPERTY OWNER/DEVELOPER MAY REQUEST THAT CITY OF
TALLADEGA FORCES INSTALL DRIVEWAY CROSS-DRAIN PIPES. THE PROPERTY
OWNER/DEVELOPER SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING THE MATERIALS, AT NO
COST TO THE CITY, SPECIFIED BY THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS AND
SCHEDULING A TIME FOR INSTALLATION THAT IS CONVENIENT FOR CITY FORCES.

SECTION 2803. FENCES

NO FENCE OF ANY KIND MAY BE ERECTED WITHIN THE CITY OF TALLADEGA WITHOUT
A BUILDING PERMIT ISSUED BY THE CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.

SECTION 2804. PLACEMENT OF ANY FENCE ALONG A CITY STREET

NO FENCE MAY BE ERECTED CLOSER THAN FIVE (5) FEET TO THE CITY’S
RIGHT-OF-WAY. WHERE THERE EXISTS AN INTERSECTING STREET, THE SET-BACK
DISTANCE MAY BE INCREASED AS DIRECTED BY THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
WHERE THERE EXISTS AN ENCROACHMENT OF SAID FENCE INTO ANY CLEAR ZONE OR
WHERE IT INTERFERES WITH THE SIGHT DISTANCE ALONG THE INTERSECTED ROAD.

SECTION 2805. EXISTING NON-CONFORMING FENCES

EXISTING NON-CONFORMING FENCES SHALL BE MADE TO CONFORM WHEN SUCH
STRUCTURE IS DAMAGED MORE THAN FIFTY (50%) OF THE REPLACEMENT VALUE OR
IS DEMOLISHED FOR THE PURPOSE OR REPLACEMENT OR RENOVATION.


ARTICLE 29 - NONCONFORMING USES

In order to avoid individual hardship whenever reasonable and not in
conflict with the general welfare of the City of Talladega, and for
purposes herein outlined, the following provisions apply to all zoning
districts.

SECTION 2901. NONCONFORMING USES PERMITTED.

The lawful use of any building or lot existing at the time of the
enactment of this Ordinance may be continued although such use does not
conform to the provisions of this Ordinance. Intent or mere preparation
shall not and does not constitute use; preparation may be enjoined after
notice of public hearing to adopt this Ordinance.

SECTION 2902. UNSAFE BUILDINGS.

Defined on pg. 18 (Ord 1749 – 3 June 2013)

SECTION 2903. CONSTRUCTION APPROVED PRIOR TO ORDINANCE.

Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall require any change in plans,
construction or designated use of a building prepared or established
before this Ordinance is adopted and the construction of which is begun
prior to the date of adoption of this Ordinance.

SECTION 2904. RESTORATION.

No building damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than
fifty (50%) percent of its replacement cost shall be repaired or rebuilt
except in conformity with the regulations of this Ordinance.

SECTION 2905. ABANDONMENT.

Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of one
(1) year, such use shall not thereafter be re-established, and any
future use shall be in conformity with the provision of this Ordinance.

SECTION 2906. CHANGE TO ANOTHER NONCONFORMING USE NOT ALLOWED.

No nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use. The
change of non-conforming use to another of the same category shall not
constitute a violation of this section.

SECTION 2907. CHANGES.

Once changed to a conforming use no building or land shall be permitted
to revert to a nonconforming use.

SECTION 2908. ENLARGEMENT.

No nonconforming use shall be enlarged or extended in any way.

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 30 - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

SECTION 3001 - LOT OF RECORD

In any residential zoning district where the owner of a lot existing at
the time of the adoption of this Ordinance, or his successor in title
thereto, does not own sufficient land to enable him to conform to the
minimum lot area or frontage requirements of this Ordinance, such lot
may be used for a one-family dwelling provided that minimum yard and
building setback requirements for the zoning district in which said lot
is located are maintained.

SECTION 3002 - REDUCTION IN BUILDING SETBACK LINE

The building setback requirements of this Ordinance for dwellings shall
not apply to any lot where the average existing building setback line on
lots located wholly or in part within two hundred feet on each side of
such lot, is less than the minimum required building setback. In such
cases, the minimum building setback on said lot may be equal to the
average of the existing setbacks on the aforementioned lots, or not less
than fifteen (15) feet from the street right-of-way line, whichever is
greater.

SECTION 3003 - EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS

The height limitations of this Ordinance shall not apply to church
spires, belfries, cupolas, and domes not intended for human occupancy,
monuments, waters towers, observation towers, telecommunications towers,
chimneys, smokestacks, conveyors, flag poles, masts and aerials.

SECTION 3004 - YARDS IN GROUP DEVELOPMENTS

More than one dwelling, institutional, commercial or industrial building
may be located upon a lot in a zoning district where such a use would be
permitted, but no such building shall encroach upon the front, side, or
rear yards required for any other building site except as would be
permitted in Planned Unit Development (PUD) zoning districts under the
provisions of Article 22. For dwellings, the open space between
buildings shall not be less than twenty (20) feet for one story
buildings, thirty (30) feet when either building is a two-story
building, forty (40) feet plus an additional ten (10) feet for each
story over three stories when either building is over three stories in
height. The minimum dimension of the yard upon which any entrance or
exit of a dwelling faces shall be twenty (20) feet; such space shall not
be counted as a yard for any other building.


ARTICLE 31 - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

SECTION 3101. ENFORCING OFFICER.

The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by
the building inspector. His duties shall include inspecting premises,
and issuing building permits and occupancy permits for uses and
buildings that meet the requirements of this Ordinance and other
Ordinances of the City of Talladega.

SECTION 3102. BUILDING PERMITS.

Building permits shall be issued in accordance with the following
provisions:

1.  Building Permit Required. It shall be unlawful to commence the
    excavation or filling of any lot for construction of any building,
    or to commence construction of any building, or to commence
    construction of any building, or to commence the moving of any
    building or the alteration of any building to the extent of more
    than one thousand ($1000), or to commence the development of land
    for a use not requiring a building, until the building inspector has
    issued a building permit for such work, provided that in R-1 zoning
    districts any building incidental to agricultural uses and not to be
    inhabited by humans shall not require a building permit.

2.  Issuance of Building Permit. In applying to the building inspector
    for a building permit, the applicant shall submit two copies of a
    dimensioned sketch or to-scale plan signed by the owner or his
    authorized agent, indicating the shape, size, and location of the
    lot to be built upon and the shape, size, heights, uses, and
    locations of the buildings to be erected, demolished, altered or
    moved and of any building already on the lot, the number of
    dwellings units the building is designed to accommodate, if any, the
    setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots, and such other
    information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential
    for determining whether the provisions of this Ordinance will be
    observed. If the proposed excavation, filling, construction, or
    movement set forth in said sketch or plan are in conformity with the
    provisions of this Ordinance, and other Ordinances of the City of
    Talladega, then in force, the building inspector shall sign and
    return one copy of the sketch or plan to the applicant and shall
    issue a building permit upon payment of any required fees. The
    building inspector shall retain one copy of the building permit and
    one copy of the sketch or plan.

3.  Refusal of Building Permit. If the sketch or plan submitted
    describes work which does not conform to the requirements of this
    Ordinance, the building inspector shall not issue building permit
    but shall return one copy of the sketch or plan to the applicant
    along with a signed refusal in writing. Such refusal shall state the
    reasons therefor and shall cite the portions of this Ordinance with
    which the submitted sketch or plan does not comply. The building
    inspector shall retain one copy of the sketch or plan and two copies
    of the refusal.

4.  Time Limitations. Any building permit issued shall become invalid
    unless the work authorized by it shall have been commenced within
    six months of its date of issue, or if the work authorized by it is
    suspended or abandoned for a period of one year.

SECTION 3103. OCCUPANCY PERMIT.

Occupancy permits shall be issued in accordance with the following
provisions:

1.  Occupancy Permits Required. An occupancy permit issued by the
    building inspector is required in advance of occupancy or use of:

a.  A building hereafter erected.

b.  A building hereafter altered to the extent of more than the amount
    indicated on the City Schedule of Fees as the threshold for
    requiring a building permit.

c.  A change of use of any building or lot.

2.  Issuance of Occupancy Permit. The building inspector shall sign and
    issue an occupancy permit if the proposed use of a lot or a
    building, as stated in the occupancy permit and signed by the owner
    or his appointed agent, is found to conform to the applicable
    provisions of this Ordinance, and if the building, as finally
    constructed, complies with the sketch or plan submitted for the
    building permit. One copy of all occupancy permits issued, which
    contains a statement of the intended use of the applicable property
    signed by the owner or his agent, shall be kept on file in the
    office of the building inspector. Copies shall be furnished on
    request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in
    the building or lot involved, at said person’s expense.

3.  Denial of Occupancy Permit. An occupancy permit shall not be issued
    unless the proposed use of a building or lot conforms to the
    applicable provisions of this Ordinance, or unless the building, as
    finally constructed, complies with the sketch or plan upon which the
    building permit was issued.

SECTION 3104. RECORDS.

It shall be the duty of the building inspector to keep a record of all
building permits and occupancy permits issued, with a notation of all
special conditions involved. He shall file and safely keep copies of all
sketches and plans submitted, and the same shall form a part of the
records of his office and shall be available for the use of the City
Council, the Board of Adjustment, the Planning Commission, and other
officials of the City of Talladega.

SECTION 3105. DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR, BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT, CITY COUNCIL, AND COURTS ON MATTERS OF APPEAL.

It is the intent of this Ordinance that all questions arising in
connection with the enforcement or the interpretation of this Ordinance
shall be first presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal from
the building inspector, and that from the decisions of the Board of
Adjustment, recourse shall be taken to a court as provided by law.

It is further the intent of this Ordinance that the duties of the City
Council in connection with this Ordinance shall not include hearing and
passing on disputed questions which might arise in connection with the
enforcement or interpretation of this Ordinance, but the procedures for
determining such questions shall be as stated in this Ordinance and that
the duties of the City Council in connection with this Ordinance shall
be only the duties of holding a public hearing and voting upon any
proposed amendment or repeal of this Ordinance as provided by law.

SECTION 3106. PENALTIES.

Any person violating a provision of this Ordinance shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished for each violation
according to law. Each day such a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.

SECTION 3107. REMEDIES.

In case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building or lot is used in
violation of this Ordinance, the building inspector, or any other proper
public authority, or any person who would be damaged by such violation,
in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or
other appropriate action in proceeding to prevent said violation in the
case of such building or use.

  This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 32 - BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEAL

SECTION 3201. APPOINTMENT

The Board of Adjustment and Appeal (the Board) of the City of Talladega
is hereby established. Said Board shall consist of five members
appointed by the City Council. The members of the Board shall serve for
overlapping terms of three years. The Board shall adopt rules in
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance for the conduct of its
affairs.

SECTION 3202. PROCEDURE

The Board shall elect one of its members as Chairman, who shall serve
for one year or until he is re-elected or his successor is elected and
qualified. The Board shall appoint a Secretary, who may or may not be a
member of the Board.

Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at
such other times as the Board may determine. The Chairman, or in his
absence, the acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the
public.

The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each questions, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the
office of the Board and shall be a public record. The concurring vote of
four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the building inspector, or to
decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required
to pass.

SECTION 3203. APPEALS. HOW TAKEN

Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the City of Talladega affected
by a decision of the building inspector or municipal official. Such
appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the
rules of the Board, by filing with the City Clerk and with the Board a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The building inspector
or officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed was taken.

SECTION 3204. PUBLIC HEARINGS

The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the appeal or other
matters referred to it, give public notices thereof, as well as due
notice to the parties of interest, and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon the hearing any part may appear in person or by
agency or by attorney.

SECTION 3205. STAY OF PROCEEDINGS

An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the building inspector certifies to the Board
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion,
cause imminent peril to life and property. Such proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
Board or by a court of record on application, or notice, to the building
inspector and on due cause shown.

SECTION 3206. POWER AND DUTIES

The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:

1.  To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
    order, requirements, decision, or determination of the building
    inspector in the enforcement of this Ordinance.

2.  To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances from the
    terms of this Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public
    interest, where, owing to the special conditions, a literal
    enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance will, in an
    individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit
    of the Ordinances shall be observed and substantial justice done.
    Such variance may be granted in such individual case of practical
    difficulty or unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the Board that
    all of the following conditions exist:

    a.  There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
        the particular piece of property in question because of its
        size, shape or topography; and,

    b.  The application of this Ordinance to the particular piece of
        property would create an unnecessary hardship; and,

    c.  Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
        involved; and,

    d.  Relief, if granted, would not cause a substantial detriment to
        the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this
        Ordinance.

No variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure
that is not permitted by this Ordinance.

In exercising the above powers, the Board may, in conformity with the
provisions of this Ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify, the order, requirements, decisions or determination of the
building inspector, and to that end shall have all powers of the
building inspector and may issue or direct issuance of a building permit
or occupancy permit.

This space intentionally left blank


ARTICLE 33 - AMENDMENTS

SECTION 3301. REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION

This Ordinance including the Zoning Map may be amended from time to time
by the City Council, but no amendment shall become effective unless it
shall first have been submitted to the Planning Commission for review
and recommendation as to relation of the proposed amendment to the
Talladega Comprehensive Plan. The Planning Commission shall have thirty
days within which to submit its report. If the Planning Commission fails
to submit a report within the forty-five (45) period or its next
regularly scheduled meeting, it shall be deemed to have approved the
proposed amendment.

SECTION 3302. PUBLIC HEARING

Before adopting an amendment to this Ordinance, the City Council shall
hold a public hearing thereon, but only after the proposed amendment has
been published in accordance with State advertising laws.


ARTICLE 34 - SEVERABILITY

SECTION 3401

All Sections of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be severable, and
if any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or article of
this Ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the
judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such as
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
works, phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, sections of articles of
this Ordinance.


ARTICLE 35 - CONFLICTING ORDINANCES

SECTION 3501

In the event any ordinance, amendments, provisions and all parts of any
such ordinances conflict with this Ordinance, the more stringent shall
govern.


ARTICLE 35 - EFFECTIVE DATE

SECTION 3601

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon the passage and
publication of the same.

ADOPTED BY COUNCIL <DATE>

PUBLISHED IN THE DAILY HOME <DATE>

Signature blocks here
